Page 1

the account number and sends it over to the bank . The bank verifies the Bachelor
encrypted Account and PIN number . If the PIN number is correct , the Level : Programme : BE
ATM displays " Enter amount " , draws money from the bank account and Object Ori
pays out the amount . Course : through U
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Object diagram 2
b ) Creator pattern Candidates are re
c ) UML multiple perspectives as practicable .
The figures in th
Attempt all the
1. a ) What is UN
process ?
b ) What is obj
software de
2. Case Study : Bar
CS CamScanner


Page 2

Verifies the POKHARA UNIVERSITY
er is correct
, the the bank : 2017
o account and Level : Bachelor Semester : Spring Year
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45 Design and Modeling
Time : 3hrs . Course : Object Oriented through UML
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
1. a ) What is UML ? How agile is applied to software development 7
process ?
b ) What is object oriented analysis and design ? Describe the most used 8
software development life cycle used nowadays ?
2. Case Study : Bank Transaction System :
Dank Transaction System
ok ! Display Balance
Cash PIN
Card number
Withdraw
Money
Inchid
Curlemel
Racord
Bank Castler Deposit
Record
Withdrawal
Deposit
Bank
Nemo Account
Numbar
Fig : use case of Bank
Transaction System 1
CS CamScanner


Page 3

On the basis of above Use case : system sequence diagram for Withdraw Money and Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Object Orie
a ) Develop the functions . Course : Through U
Deposit for any one of the system operations you identify .
b ) Write the contract Model used for ? How system behaviour can
3. a ) What is conceptual abstraction and Encapsulation ? Explain . Candidates are re
achieve data practicable .
4. a ) What does visibility controls in Object oriented programming ? The figures all the d
b ) When contracts are used ? Explain in context of an example by using as in the
the standard guidelines .
Describe different types of it with example . Attempt
b ) What are the roles of objects and patterns in OODM ? Describe the
different patterns used . 1. a ) Explain
5. a ) How domain model can be built from use case ? Illustrate the steps How is 1
used . behavio
b ) Explain b ) What are the important things to be handled during mapping design to code ? Illustrate with an example . 7 specify
6. a ) Why exception and error handling is important in OOAD ? Explain a ) What a
a ) Use Case Model ( Any two ) b ) What 2x !
7. Write short notes on : functionality ? betwe
. b ) What are descriptor classes in GRASP ? How does 7 2. record
it achieve singleton 8
b ) MVC Pattern conc syste
c ) Creating methods from collaboration 3. a ) Hov
diagram Stu



Page 4

TO Withdraw Money POKHARA UNIVERSITY
system operations you identify Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100 45
for ? How system behaviour Level : Bachelor Pass Marks :
culation ? Explain . Programme : BE Oriented Design and Modeling 3hrs . Time
context of an example Course : Object UML .
by using Object oriented Through required to give their answers in their own words as far
programming mple . tterns in OODM ? Describe Candidates are as practicable . The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
the use case ? Illustrate Attempt all the questions . abstraction with suitable examples ? the
the steps andled 1. a ) Explain data and behavioral responsibilities assigned to objects different from
during mapping How is the behavior that they exhibit ? performing requirements elicitation and 7
design ortant in OOAD b ) Explain the process of specifying those requirements using a visual modeling tool ? identifying and
? Explain How does it achieve use cases and how can they be used for differentiate
. a ) What are requirements ? How would you
singleton recording system between include and extend relationship between use cases ? between Domain
ram system making necessary 3. a ) How are system events identified ? 9
2 b concept elements ? Construct a domain model for a patient care
: 2018
) What are the different relationships that may exist
assumptions .
Student Attendance Monitoring System :
In case of a Student Attendance Monitoring System , the system
allows students to record their daily attendance through a Biometric
Finger scan device . The system records the daily attendance of
students and generates a report at the end of every month that shows
the late arrival details , number of absentees etc. The system allows
staff members to print the reports and configure the system as per
their need .
Identify the potential use cases for scenarios and elaborate them further
by coming up with individual sequence diagrams
for identifying the system events belonging to the individual scenario b ) How can iterations
. and conditional messages be shown Collaboration
using a diagram and a Sequence diagram ? 4. a ) Cheque Payment
: A customer presents
a cheque to the bank employee . checks if the cheque
The employee and the signature are valid and
that the
7
H J K L
CS CamScanner


Page 5

customer has enough amount of balance in the account . maximum amount of withdrawal allowed is 100000 per cheque case the Bachelor Object Oriented 38 : UML give their
The Design
unless the customer is a Privileged Customer in which customer can make a withdrawal of 500000 per cheque . Upon Through required to
successful verification , the system records the successful completion transaction and the cash is handed over to the customer . didates are indicate
of the modeling of the above scenario . practicable . margin
Perform domain i . sequence diagram for the events that occur in the the
ii . Draw the figures in questions .
scenario . the
b ) What is the difference between coupling and cohesion ? How can rather than the Aempt all to form
you make use of the Information Expert Pattern Controller pattern for delegating responsibilities to objects while necessary behavioura
designing a system ? Why is it data and difference b
5. a ) In the UML , how can error generated and exceptions thrown by 71 forming H
operations be illustrated in a Sequence diagram ? Explain with the Explain the elicitation ?
necessary figure . requirements static and dy
b ) ATM : 8 Differentiate concise
A customer having a Savings account in a Bank swipes a card in an ATM with a
machine and types in the PIN number using the keyboard of life cycle Online Food C
the ATM . The System checks if the PIN matches the card . If the Yummy Food Q
PIN does not match , the system rejects the card and display the b ) Online
rejection message in the ATM display . If the PIN is found to be a In case of an online . The sys
valid one , the customer types in the amount to be withdrawn . The order food report af
system checks if the customer has enough amount of balance in that account generates a notes
. If he does , the system debits the account and dispatches and system
cash thru the dispenser of the ATM and a receipt gets details . The discount a
printed and issued to the customer . and provides administrato
Come up with a design class diagram for the scenario then system mentio
above and map those classes to code in any programming the the above
language that supports Object Oriented Paradigm . 6. a ) What are For elaborate them identif
the artefacts created during the Object Oriented phase and for
Analysis of software development and how do those artefacts converted into concrete 8 diagrams
get design during the Object Oriented phase thru elaboration scenario . How do you
Design ? b ) Why should one expect and 3. a ) requirements
7. Write short notes on plan for change and deviation from the design even during programming ? Explain automate the with a d
: ( Any two ) . a ) Activity Diagrams 7 up assumption
b ) Iterative Process 2x5 Explain sy
c ) Local and Global b ) Visibility SSD
2
POKHARA UNIVER Semester : Spri
and Mo
CS CamScanner


Page 6

the Upon Semester : Spring Year : 2018 Full Marks : 100
completion · customer . Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Object Oriented Design and Modeling Pass Marks : 45 : 3hrs .
eve scenario , Course : Through UML far
the events that occur in the required to give their answers in their own words as
coupling and cohesion ? How can Expert Pattern rather than Candidates as practicable . margin indicate full marks .
the responsibilities to objects while The figures in the
generated and exceptions thrown by diagram ? Explain Why is it necessary to form abstractions ? Explain the process of examples ?
Sequence with the a ) forming data and behavioural abstraction with suitable 7 specification and
punt in a Bank swipes a card in an EN 8 b ) Explain requirements elicitation ? How are they performed ? 7 dynamic model , used in software development
number using the keyboard of the a ) Differentiate static and
PIN matches the card . If the life cycle with a concise diagram of each .
ejects the card and display the b ) Yummy Online Food Ordering : customer to
ay . If the PIN is found to be a In case of an Online Food Ordering System , the system allows
amount to be withdrawn . The food online . The system records the orders placed by the customers
ugh amount of balance in that order of every month that shows the order
ds the account and dispatches and generates a report at the end
d a receipt gets printed and details . The system notes the customers who place orders more frequently
for the scenario above and and provides discount as per the published discount scheme the system administrator to configure the system and print reports .
rogramming language that For the above mentioned scenario , come up with the potential use cases .
Object Oriented Analysis 8 and elaborate them further by coming up with individual sequence diagrams for identifying
w do those artefacts get the system events belonging to the individual
Object Oriented Design scenario . 3. a )
e and deviation from the with the Domain concept elements from the requirements specified by the customer ? Your college is wanting 7
7 to automate the manual tasks being
2 × 5 conducted in the Exam section , come up with a domain model for this scenario
POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Time
are
Attempt all the questions .
the difference between requirements
. It also allows
How do you come up
by making the necessary assumptions .
b ) Explain system response , event and operation . Explain the
purpose of SSD with an example . 4. a ) How do the artifacts
created during the Object Oriented Analysis 7
1
CS CamScanner


Page 7

P
phase of software development get design during the Object Oriented Design phase ? Explain with an example . Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Oriente
converted into concrete
b ) Differentiate between coupling and cohesion by drawing class diagrams of interconnected classes ? When would you rather make use Course : Object through UML
of the Information Expert Pattern than the Creator pattern for responsibility delegation to objects while designing an Object Candidates are requ
Oriented system ? diagrams with as practicable . the m
5. a ) Differentiate between sequence and communication regards to their strength and weakness . Draw a diagram for mutually The figures in
exclusive conditional path . Attempt all the que
b ) What is class diagram ? How class diagram can be drawn ? Explain step Unified Model
by step methodology along with the notations used to create them . a ) " visualizing , com
On the basis of given figure , convert it to code using a complete 6. a ) . Justi
source code . systems "
Shape + m\u00e1ln ( ) : v\u00f6ld Interface >>
FacadePatternDerno b ) What are the
OOA / D .
Dressed form
Circle 3 . creates Implement Rectangle -rectangle shape a ) Describe th with
Implements b ) ShapeMaker Explain the
+ draw ( ) : vold What is con 2. a )
How System
Square squares Shope Pattern
+ draw ] ) : void + drew ( ) : vold . + ShapeMaker ( ) How do yo
+ draw : void + drawardal vold b ) Interaction
-circle : Shape
drawfectangle vold
4drawSquare wold b ) Differentiate between responsibil
errors and exceptions . What features provided by the UML for 7. a
are modeling exception handling ? Write short notes on : ( Any 7 ) What is exclusive
two ) a ) Steps to create a domain 4 . a
model . b ) Visibility of objects 2x5 block ex
c ) Creating class definitions What d
from DCD's . b ) SSD f
CS CamScanner


Page 8

-te . POKHARA UNIVERSITY
wing class Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2019
" Ruses . " When than the Creator pattern for Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling Pass Marks : 45
would you rather mak use Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
Pattern while designing an Object through UML Time : 3hrs .

objects
and communication diagrams with diagram for Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
ness . Draw a mutually The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Eagram can be drawn ? Explain step Attempt all the questions .
otations used to create them .
= rt it to code using a complete a ) " Unified Modeling Language ( UML ) is a language for specifying , software 8
visualizing , constructing , and documenting the artifacts of UML in
systems " . Justify this statement explaining the significance of
OOA / D . Facade Patternberbo
b ) What are the various formats to represent a Use case ? Explain Fully- 2 + 5
+ main ( ) : vold Dressed format with an example .
asks 2. a ) How System Behaviour can be represented in UML ? 8
b ) What is conceptual Model ? How can one build a conceptual model ? 7 ShapeMaker
Explain the steps involved . creates circle : Shape
-rectangle : Shape 3. a ) Describe the significance of GRASP . Explain Information Expert 7
-square Shape Pattern with an example .
+ ShapeMaker b ) How do you denote mutually exclusive
+ drawardevold conditional paths in 8
+ drawfectangle vold Interaction Diagram ? What are the DO - ing and KNOW - ing
4drawsquare vold responsibilities of an object ?
s . What features are 7
andling ? 4 . a ) What is a collaboration diagram ? How do we represent mutually exclusive conditions in a collaboration 7
2x5 diagram ? Justify with a complete block example .
b ) What do What do you mean by system operation , events and behaviour ? Draw a SSD for makePayment ( ) function . 8
1
CS CamScanner


Page 9

b ) What do you mean by Exception in OOA fully dressed use Description :
5. a ) Convert the given Design Class Diagram into an equivalent language like Java , C ++ , etc ) el Tamme : Object Oriented UML
Orde Rectangle Square -square : Shape the terms OO
code . ( you : Bachelor 9 BE Desig
can choose any Course : through
Shape << interface >> Candidates practicable . the margin in
+ draw [ ] : void ShapeMaker The figures in the questions . )
Implements -circle : Shape Attempt all
creates Implement -rectangle Shape
+ draw ( ) : vold + draw void + draw ) > vold ShapeMaker ( ) + drawCircle ( ) vold Explain activities in each phase di
Facade Pattern Demo required to g
+ main ( ) : void are
asks s
+
+ drawRectangle ) : void an use case
+ drawSquare ( ) void Draw cas
/ D ? How are Exceptions addressed by UML ? 6 Use Case This
6. a ) How object oriented is used in their bank account type of account from w
SDLC ? b ) " Contracts in UML provides a list of possible
a more detailed description of system behavior when use cases 8 from amounts .
are insufficient " . Explain this statement an example . 7 of possible verification
with 7. Write short notes on : ( Any two system for dispenses the
) a ) System event and machine
b ) Visibility system operation illustrating un UML 2x5 dispensing of cash is
c ) High Cohesion and a ) Draw a use cas domain
Low Coupling b ) Draw a
POKHAR Seme
.
noun phrases c about
a ) Discuss What do you
b ) an exan
with cohesi
4 . a ) How the depende
b ) What contract . D
is Co
5 . a ) ed
Why desi
CS CamScanner


Page 10

eates -circle : Shape -rectangle The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
atent code POKHARA UNIVERSITY
. ( you
Facade PatternDemo Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45
+ main : Time : 3hrs . Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling UML
void through
asks Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
ShapeMaker as practicable .
: Shape -square : Attempt all the questions .
Shape
+ ShapeMaker ( ) with key
+ drawCircle ( ) : void a ) Explain the terms OOA and OOD . Elaborate your answer 7
+ drawRectangle activities in each phase .
( ) : vold + drawSquare (
) : void b ) Draw an use case diagram for a business of your choice and write 8
ow are Exceptions fully dressed use case by selecting most important use case .
option of system 8 from a list of possible accounts , and to choose a dollar amount from a list of possible amounts . The system sends the transaction to the financial 7
his statement with system for verification . If the financial system approves the transaction , the
ML 2x5 dispensing of cash is also recorded in the a ) Draw a use case diagram on the basis of above case study . 8
9 : 2019 Year
6 Use Case Description : Allows any bank customer to obtain cash from
their bank account . This use case begins when an ATM customer chooses a
type of account from which the cash is to be withdrawn ( e.g. checking ) .
machine dispenses the appropriate amount of cash and issues a receipt . The
ATM's log .
b ) Draw a domain model of the above use case by choosing the noun and case diagram . 7
noun phrases of your use
Discuss about the different methods for identifying conceptual classes . a ) 7
b ) What do you understand by the term association ? Explain multiplicity 8
with an example . cohesion and coupling affects the object
a ) How pattern . Describe using dependency diagram . 8
b ) What is Contract ppost conditions are essential for drawing a contract Describe it using a suitable use condition 7
i . a ) Why design considered as important artifacts in object oriented design ? Explain the use of Creator 8
b ) What use of attribute and parameter 7
the ? Pre and
. case
. patterns
are
and Information Expert
pattorns . is visibility ? Describe the
1
CS CamScanner


Page 11

visibility among classes while designing class diagram . errors and exceptions can be handled during Mapping codes to Bachelor
6. a ) How design ? Elaborate using a simple code snippets using any Object Level : Programme : BE
oriented programming language of your choice . the diagram into code using any of the object oriented Course : Object O through
b ) Convert
languages ( C ++ , Java etc. )
implements Attempt all the
Shape FacadePatternDemo Candidates are practicable .
* draw ( ) : void + main ( ) : void as The figures in t
implement ShapeMaker O0
Circle Rectangle Square -circle : How does
creates Shape -rectangle Shape example .
+ draw ( ) : vold + drow ( ) : void + draw -square Shape ) Explain differ
( ) : vold
7. Write short notes on b ) Explain the
: ( Any two ) a ) Unified conceptual c
Process b ) Sequence with a scena
versus collaboration diagram c ) Mapping 2x a ) What is the
design to codes steps you construc
asks
+ ShapeMaker ( )
+ drawCirde ( ) : void What do you
+ drawRectangle ( ) : void
+ drawSquare ) : void management
b ) How does c
name and m
Case Study : C
At the begin
containing
about each included
be to
students se
coming choices in
offerings couise
A regist
the se
system
CS CamScanner


Page 12

Mapping codes to POKHARA UNIVERSITY 2020
pers using any Object Semester : Fall Year :
evel : Bachelor Full Marks : 100
easing any of the object oriented Programme Pass Marks : Time Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling : 3hrs .
Gates -crde : Shape -rectangle How does OOD differ from OOA example .
rede attemDems give their answers in their own words as far
-main : wo as practicable . indicate full marks .
asks The figures Attempt all the questions .
ShapeMaker ? Explain the key OOA activities with 7
Shape -square : Shape Rational Unified Process . 8
+ ShapeMaker ( ) Explain different phases and disciplines library 8
+ drawOrde : void do you mean by UML ? Draw a use - case diagram for a
+ drewRectangle ( ) What issue - book " .
: void -drawSquare management system and write fully dressed use case for "
: ad
: BE 45
through UML
Candidates are required to
in the margin
of
Explain the importance of object - oriented analysis , in identifying and other elements and to construct a domain model , 7
conceptual classes
with a scenario .
2 > What is the role of Domain Model in developing a software ? How can 7
you construct a domain model ?
b ) How does classes are linked to one another ? Discuss association with its 8
name and multiplicity with examples .
Case Study : Course Registration System
At the beginning of each semester students may request a course catalog containing
a list of each course offerings for the semester . Information about each course
, such as professor , department , and prerequisites will be included to help students
for prompt decisions . The system will allow students to select four courses
that are going to be offered for the semester In addition each student will
coming . , indicate two alte mative choices in case a course offering becomes filled or canceled
. No course offerings will have more than ten students fewer
or than three students
. offering with fewer than three students will be
A course canceled . Once registration process is completed for
the a student , the registration sends information to the billing system
system so the student can be billed for the semester . Professors must be able to
access the online indicate which courses they will be teaching
system to , and to see which 1
CS CamScanner


Page 13

6 . a ) How can we make our system tempt all the questions .
students signed up for their course offerings . diagram . 1
a ) Considering above scenario , draw the collaboration the class 7 8
b ) Identify the classes , assume the necessary attributes and draw Bachelor
diagram . BE
5. a ) What is visibility in OOP Language ? Describe its role in obtaining high 8 : Object Oriented Design and N
abstraction . What are the various types of them ? Elaborate using
diagram and code snippets for the private visibility . required to answer in
b ) Why do we need design pattems ? Explain the use of low coupling and aidates are 7 vers with a valid set of UML diag
high cohesion pattems .
7 . necessary steps to convert design to code with example . Write short notes on : ( Any two QN.1 Discuss the emergence Support your answer w
a ) Elaborating use case 2 × 50N.2 Differentiate the stru usin
b ) Representation of system behavior Q.N.3 understanding by Consider a business
c ) Mapping design to code standard practices to
b ) Ultimately diagrams are not executable , so we need to convert them
into code . Explain 8
)
more robust ? Discuss the use of exception handling in 7
OOA and OOD .
Q.N.4 Differentiate sequen are its
Q. N. 5 Convert the diagra
the domain model .
used and what
What is visibility in What are the variou
Java etc. )
CS CamScanner


Page 14

m .
and draw
the class
= in obtaining POKHARA UNIVERSITY
high Elaborate using el : Bachelor RIM : BE Semester Spring Full Marks 70 Marks 31.5
w coupling Time : 2 hrs . practicable .
and are required to answer in their own words as far as s with a valid set of LML diagrams indicate full marks .
Es the
use of 7 empt all the questions .
vert them into Group A : ( 5x10 = 50 )
n example . 8 N. 1 Discuss the emergence of OOA and OOD phases in addition to the existing OOP . 10
Year : 2020
Pass : Object Oriented Design and Modeling through UML
2x N.2 understanding by using appropriate artifacts for both . Differentiate the structural and behavioral analysis process . Elaborate your 10
Support your answer with key activities in each phase chronologically .
QN 3 Consider a business of your choice and develop a domain model . Follow the attributes associations to develop 10
standard practices to find conceptual classes , and
the domain model .
QN . 4 10 Differentiate sequence diagram with collaboration diagram . Why Contracts are
used and what are its format ?
OR
What is visibility in OOAD ? Describe its role in obtaining high abstraction .
What are the various types of them ? Elaborate using diagram and code snippets .
Q.N.5 Convert the diagram into code using any of the object oriented languages ( C ++ ,
Java etc. ) 10
All
- creates oice : Shape
Square rectangle Shape Shaq
FacadePattern De
mang tres
drawdo
CS CamScanner


Page 15

Q. N. 6 Case Study outbreak many sectors have been seriously affected . Face
L
P
Group B : ( 1 × 20 = 20 )
Due to COVID - 19 mandatory in public places because it is a respiratory sensitive disease .
masks are A reputed hospital in Kathmandu wants to hire a software development team to
develop a smart face mask detection system .
The system needs to be connected with several cameras for detecting human faces anyone face mask . The admin can add
to make sure whether there is without a
different wards with details including a supervisor and rooms with cameras in each
ward . The supervisor can monitor own ward with a dashboard showing the total number
of faces with mask and without masks . Additionally , there is a smart
entrance gate that will block the people without a face mask .
Consider yourself as a team lead of the software development team . Illustrate understanding a )
your about the context by developing and finalizing the
following artifacts .
Use Case Diagram , Sequence Diagram , Class Diagram , Communication Diagram
. b )
20
2 . a
3 .
H
CS CamScanner


Page 16

aloud Fac
faces as practicable . The figures the
add in margin indicate full marks .
I showing the too Attempt all the questions .
here is a sm
flustrate your a ) How is the Unified Process different than other traditional processes like with regard to the distinctive features of 8
following waterfall model ? Discuss
Communication b ) " UML is a language for specializing , visualizing , constructing and 7
Level : Bachelor POKHARA Semester : Fall Year : 2021 Full Marks : 100
Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45
UNIVERSITY
Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling Time : 3hrs .
through UML
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
Unified Process .
documenting the artifacts of the system . " Justify this statement
explaining the significance of UML in OO/AD.
a ) What are use cases and how the can be used for identifying and between 8
recording system requirement ? How would you differentiate
include and extend relationship between use cases .
b ) Why do we need Conceptual Classes ? Discuss with an example . 7
a ) " Contracts in UML provides a more detailed description of system 5
behavior when use cases are not sufficient " . Explain this statement with
an example .
b ) LEAVE APPLICATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM : 10
SYSTEM MODULES
Register :
One user has to register on this interface with its actual data to be filled and applied
in the same interface , then pressed enter to be saved
in the database . Further move to log in
, . Login :
The user inputs its secure user id and password and enters system
the . User can login multiple times as many times he
wants Leave apply :
Here is the module for applying for leave
to the interface . One has to enter his details about the leave
like reason of the leave
.
CS CamScanner


Page 17

Choose the dates of the leave policy of the company or premise the cost interface . Level Programme Course : Object through
. Depending upon the of the leave : :
user's Bachelor BE
account and calculated and shown to the is will
is review : application of the leave application he
Live After successful admin . According to his need ,
come under scrutiny done by an will review it and take necessary action in next module . Candidates a
Leave approval : admin approves the leave or not is reflected by admin shown to the practicab
Here users . Here all the real - time updates will be as The figures
to the Users can see only their own leave request there . Attempt all
users .
Log out : , the user can log out the system to release the
In the end the purpose of anything else . How do
resources held for the use case diagram for 1. a ) activitie
Identify the use cases and draw i . What a
the system b )
ii . Draw SSD for the scenario of leave application . record
4. a ) Discuss the importance of using Patterns in OOD . Provide an example 8 includ
scenario for applying high cohesion pattern . Wha
b ) Why are interaction diagram developed during OOD ? Differentiate 7 2. a ) Ex
between Sequence and Collaboration diagrams .
5. A hospital's ICU department uses various devices during the treatment of 15 b ) W
patients . Each patient is monitored to measures factors such as temperature , CO
heart rate , and blood pressure . The device regularly reads the values and record them . For a ) W
each patient , medical staff also specifies safe ranges for each factor . If a factor 3 .
falls outside a patient's safe range , or if a device fails , the nurses ' station b)
is notified .
Develop a Domain model , Sequence diagrams and Class diagram from these details
.
6. a ) Explain with an example , how class diagram can be used 4 . a )
to generate code . 7 b )
a ) Visibility on : ( Any two ) 2 × 5
7. Write short notes are exceptions and errors ? Explain the ways for handling them . 8 5 .
b ) Test - First Programming
c ) . Identifying Conceptual classes
b ) What
2
CS CamScanner


Page 18

POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2021
Semester : Spring Year Full Marks : 100 Level : Bachelor 45
plication is will to his need Programme : BE Design and Modeling Pass Marks : : 3hrs .
ling , he module . Course : Object Oriented Time
reflected by admin
e shown to the give their answers in their own words as far
there . Candidates are required to
tem to release the The figures in the margin indicate full marks . Attempt all the questions
through UML
as practicable .
.
1. a ) How does OOA differ from OOD ? Elaborate your answer with key 7 e diagram for
activities in each phase . tion .
b ) What are use cases and how they can be used for identifying and 8
recording system requirements ? How would you differentiate between ovide an example 8
include and extend relationship between use cases ?
D ? Differentiate 7 2. a ) What are different strategies for identifying conceptual classes ? 8
Explain with examples .
the treatment of 11 b ) What is an operation contract ? Is it essential to develop an operation 7
as temperature , contract for each and every system operations ? Explain .
the values and 3. a ) What is visibility ? Describe the use of attribute and parameter visibility 8
safe ranges for among classes while designing class diagrams .
if a device fails , b ) Discuss the necessity of interaction diagram during software design .
7 How is conditional messages and mutually exclusive conditional paths
gram from these illustrated in interaction diagrams ? Explain .
sed to generate 7 8 7 4. a ) Explain different types of relationship used b ) " UML is a language for specializing , visualizing , constructing and
andling them . 8 P documenting the artifacts of the system . " Justify this statement explaining the significance of UML in OOA / D .
2 × 5 7 5. a ) What is the significance of studying exception and error handling in
in class diagram .
objects oriented analysis and design ? Explain briefly about exception technique .
handling process of mapping design to code ( both class definition and
b ) Explain the method definition ) with example . Support your answer by using a design 8
class diagram and collaboration diagram .
1
CS CamScanner
Hy Alt


