Page 1

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester Fall Year : 2012 Full Marks : 100
Programme : DE and Modelling Pass Marks : 45
Course : Object Oriented Design through UML Time : 3hrs .
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable ,
as marks .
The figures in the margin indicate full
Anempt all the questions ,
What are various notations provided by the UML for capturing the 7
static and dynamic aspects of a software system ? Explain with figures .
Explain how the change in requirements is handled on an iterative iterative and incremental 8
development . List out the advantage of an
process of software development over waterfall development process .
What is the basic procedure to find out the use cases ? List benefits of
writing use cases during software development process ?
Explain when the changes occur in mapping design to code . 5 
How do we assign responsibilities to objects ? Explain with a suitable บ 5
example .
What are various relationships that might exist between different 8
domain elements ? Explain using a Patient billing system as an
example .
What are the important contents of a Post condition of an operation
contract ? How is mapping of these operation contracts done during 7
Object Oriented design phase ?
OR
Define role of multiplicity and non primitive types with suitable 7
examples .
a ) What is the significance of using interaction diagram during design
? Compare and contrast system sequence diagram and collaboration 8
diagram in terms of its weakness and strength .
b ) When is it desirable to use Controller pattern instead of
using Information expert pattern when assigning responsibility to objects 7
? a ) What are the conditions for preparing a contract
? Does writing 1 7
CS
CamScanner


Page 2

0 . change and devintion during programming phase ? Explain Case Study : Online Bachelo
contracts leads to domain model updates POKHARA UNIVERSI
, defend your b ) Why is it desirable to expect the Semester : Spring
answer . and plan for design even
from Hotel Reservation System When making a reservation nel amme : BE Oriented Design and Modelli
a customer must information To speed Object
register his her . up the process details of previous stored and made available later urse ugh UML
personal customers will . By this system the customer reservation and cancel it . When making are required to give their answ choose the number
be can make a reservation the Candidates transportation etc ) of rooms , the type of
customer can . The reservation is confirmed when of the total charges . After the reservation room , services ( laundry the margin indicate full mar of the details
customer pay 10 % , the customer will get an e , meal , figures in of the reservation . Within a hotel there is a reservation controlling Attempt all the questions .
- mail administrator reservations at the no - shows
who is responsible for hotel . He is also responsible ( When the reservation at the hotel date ) and makes a reservation Differentiate between state transition
for processing doesn't show up at reserved for a customer . Now answer the following a ) component diagram and deployme !
questions : Identify all the use cases write examples .
and actors and draw all the course of events b ) Draw Describe the importance of Unified ]
a use case diagram for one use case . class diagram for the 7. Write describe briefly all the phases of Unif
. Also above scenario . short notes on any a ) Define Use Cases . How Use Cases b
two : Visibility h process explain with an example .
) Relationship Describe the importance
between GRASP and UML c ) High cohesion of Contra detail for at least
and low coupling one system oper
2 suitable exam Map the fo
your own .
What are the activities perform
process ? How can potential domai
be identified ?
b ) " Well designed interaction diagr
analysis and designed ' , Justify y
exclusive condition of UML Coll :
a ) Show with an example how can
a Collaboration diagram and a Se between k
b ) What is the difference
How does making use of Design
responsibilities to objects ? Qupling
a ) How cohesion
b ) to c
ara supports
3 2
ER T
CS
CamScanner


Page 3

d your for
answer . change and deviation ing programming phase ? Explain Reservation
from System ion a customer must register the details Bachelor POKHARA UNIVERSITY Year : 2012
his her process of previous later . By this system Level : Programme : BE Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100 Marks : 45 .
personal customers will the customer When making a reservation the ns , the type of Pass Time Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling Through UML : 3hrs .
be can make customer room , services ervation is confirmed Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
can ( laundry , meal when customer he reservation , the customer as practicable .
, pay 10 will get The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
% an e mail ervation administrator Attempt all the questions .
- who hotel
is responsible . He is also responsible 8
for for processing ion at the hotel doesn't show for a customer 5 ) Differentiate between state transition diagram and activity diagram , component diagram and deployment diagram with appropriate 7
up at reserved . stions examples .
ол .
: Process in OOAD . List out and
nd actors and draw Describe the importance of Unified describe briefly all the phases of Unified Process .
a use case diagram ts for one
. Also use case . 3 ) Define Use Cases . How Use Cases benefits the software development
above scenario . process explain with an example .
P and UML your own What are the activities performed during the domain modeling 8
ing process ? How can potential domain elements for a particular scenario
7
b ) Describe the importance of Contract in OOAD . Explain contract in detail for at least one system operation for any kind of example of . 8
.
be identified ?
b ) ' Well designed interaction diagram are valuable in object oriented 7
analysis and designed ' , Justify your answer . Describe the mutually
exclusive condition of UML Collaboration diagram .
a ) Show with an example how can conditional messages be portrayed in 7
a Collaboration diagram and a Sequence diagram .
b ) What is the difference between knowing and doing responsibilities ? 8
How does making use of Design Patterns help in correctly assigning
responsibilities to objects ?
a ) How cohesion and coupling affect good design , explain with a 7
suitable example ?
b ) Map the following design to code in any programming language that 8
supports Object Oriented Paradigm
1
Tab H LL F
QWER
D
D
CS CamScanner


Page 4

7 . exceptions Write short notes on : ( Any two ) example . Distinguish be
Scavor POKHARA
Robot Actuators Candidates as practicable .
pickItem ( ) moveBackward ( ) Attempt all the questions .
dropliem ( )
has Through
has N state ; The figures in the margin india
tot
moveForward (
6. a ) Explain how code can be generated from collaboration diagram and a ) " Good and Precise Requir State Expanded Use case
design class diagram . Explain with a suitable example . and alternative flow .
b ) What do you mean by fault , error and failure ? How are perceiv
addressed by UML ? b ) How are objects
a ) Code reuse Design .
b ) Real Use Cases . Why do you make a sys
c ) Requirements Capture . a ) while designing domain
Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Sem
Course : Object Oriented Design UML
are required to give
b ) Describe the importance
2 an , librarian and
contract , justify your an
a ) Define the term visibi
between objects ? Illust
b ) Explain the importanc
coupling effect design Distinguish between
4. a )
designing Design Clas
b ) How does design trac
design phase and cod
reasoning ?
ibrary Management Syst
stem Description : Library
system is a type
s to different
CS CamScanner


Page 5

$ moveForward ( The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Actuators Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable .
int state . 125
movellaakwand Attempt all the questions .
POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2013
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100 Course : Object Oriented Design and
Modeling UML Pass Marks : 45
Through Time : 3hrs .
rated from collaboration diagram and State Expanded Use case with suitable example describing main flow
ith a suitable example . and alternative flow .ror and failure ? How are 7 b ) How are objects perceived in design phase ? Explain with suitable exceptions
" Good and Precise Requirements leads to good design " , justify it . 8
example . Distinguish between OOAD and Structural Analysis and
Design . 2
a ) Why do you make a system sequence diagram ? Explain all the steps 7
while designing domain model with example ?
b ) Describe the importance of contract in OOAD . Design is initiated by S
contract , justify your answer with suitable example .
a ) Define the term visibility and explain different types of visibility
between objects ? Illustrate with an example .
b ) Explain the importance of pattern in design . How do cohesion and 7
coupling effect design ? Explain .
a ) Distinguish between class and object , what are the major factors for
designing Design Class Diagram ( DCD ) , explain with suitable logic .
b ) How does design traces and adjusts the change of requirement during
design phase and coding phase ? Explain with suitable example and 7
reasoning ?
Library Management System
System Description :
This system is a Library management system which controls and grants
access to different types of users such as system administrator , head
librarian , librarian and members . This system should be able to manage
K Q W
E H
Tab T G
A S D ?
Caps
Lock V B
LL
CS
CamScanner


Page 6

books , loans , late fees , searching of books , should be able Semester : Fal
to keep members in a queue for loans . It should be Bachelor
able to generate automatic email and SMS message before expiry of book loan .. wel : regramme : BE
Add qualitative requirements according to the need of the scenario Course Object Oriented Design and Mod UML
. a ) Draw complete use case diagram . : through
b ) Draw behavioral model of this case .
6. a ) Explain how can code be generated from Candidates are required to give their a
collaboration diagram . Explain taking suitable examples . b ) State the importance of practicable . indicate full
development process in design . What do you understand by updating of class definitions The figures in the margin
? Illustrate with an example . 7. Write short notes on : ( Attempt all the questions .
Any two ) a ) Error and Exception
handling . b ) Unified Process How is Object Oriented Analysi
. c ) Activity from other paradigms ? Write
Diagram . oriented
POKHARA UNIVE
approach .
b ) What are the important com
Illustrate the importance of us
developed .
a ) What do you mean by Syst
Draw a System Sequence di
Library system . Write d
b ) What is a contract ?
event explaining the signifi Model '
a ) What is a Domain
Model ? Explain with exam b associations and
) Define
consideration , draw the association
represent the choose any syst
free to
System ) 4. and list
a ) Define pattern di
How Expert pattern examples ?
suitable make a co
b ) How do you interaction di
Why is different types of inte
Explain how code ca
CS
CamScanner


Page 7

able to keep members POKHARA UNIVERSITY
rate automatic email Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2014
and Level : Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
e need of the scenario . Course Object Oriented Design and Modelling Pass Marks : 45
from collaboration diagram Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
. s practicable . as
cess in design . What do The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
you nitions ? Illustrate with an Attempt all the questions .
: UML : 3hrs . Time
through
a ) How is Object Oriented Analysis and Design paradigm different 7
from other paradigms ? Write down the advantages of object
oriented approach .
b ) What are the important components of a use case model ? 8
Illustrate the importance of use case diagram for a system being
developed ..
Caps
b ) What is a contract ? Write down a contract for enterItem system 7
event explaining the significance of post conditions ?
a ) What do you mean by System Event and System Operation ? 8
Draw a System Sequence diagram for return book use case of a
Library system .
a ) What is a Domain Model ? How do you construct the Domain 7
Model ? Explain with example .
b ) Define associations and attributes . Taking a system into 8 .
consideration , draw the necessary classes of the system and
represent the association and attributes of these classes . ( You are
free to choose any system of your choice like POS , Library
System )
4. a ) Define pattern and list out different types of GRASP pattern . 8
How Expert pattern differs from Creator pattern , explain with
suitable examples ? model ? Illustrate .
b ) How do you make a conceptual 5. a ) Why is interaction diagrams used ? Compare and contrast the 7
different types of interaction diagrams . Explain how code can be generated from collaboration diagram
b ) 7
1
8
N
CS
CamScanner


Page 8

and design class diagram . Justify with necessary examples Bachelor Design and Modelling\n. Case Study BE Oriented answers in t\nIn hospital a patient goes to registration machine he Object anes UML their\npress the on button then the screen opens . He enters patient id number for through required to give\n. He books the doctor for his checkup . He checks the category\nof disease from given list , then he chooses doctor's name from list , he are full marks .\ngiven doctors name enters time he wants to meet with doctor he need to enters es indicate practicable .\n. For this registration the amount , if the amount digit is ok registration and the margin\nit accepts the prints the registration slip , otherwise it will give signal of alarm of in sufficient res in questions . F\na amount . Now draw a use case model ( no description interaction tall the and disciplines of\ninformation . required ) , Domain model , diagrams and design class diagram from these 7. Explain different phases important components of a u\nWrite short notes on : ( Any two What are the diagram for a syste\n) a ) Exceptions and case\nError Handling b ) Programming importance of use methods of ide\nand development process c ) Representation 2x What are the different and real use\nof system behavior . xfcifference between essential essenti\nPOKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester Spring\nAssociations and attributes are agree or disagree ? Just\nmodel . Do you collaboration diagram ?\nWhat is a conditions in a collabo\nexclusive\nexample . be\nWhat do you mean by system '\nguidelines for preparing a contract\n2 ) What are the GRASP patterns ?\napply the creator pattern durin\nb ) Why is class diagram impor\ndiagram with a necessary fig\ndiagram during analysis phase\na ) What is a Contract ? How\nessential parts of a contract ?\nb ) What do you understand\nwith an example .\n6. a ) Convert the given Desigr\ncan choose any language\n2\nCS\nCamScanner


Page 9

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
he press the on 15 Level : Bachelor Semester Spring = Year Full Marks : 100
ent id number . He books of disease Programme : BE : 3hrs . Time Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling
cape checks from doctor's name from given doctors name through UML Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
the category
t , if the amount digit accepts the slip otherwise it will give as practicable The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
t is ok it .
gistration , a amount . questions .
o description required ) , Domain model , design class diagram from Rational Unified Process ? 6
these a ) Explain different phases and disciplines of
: 2014
Attempt all the
Ling 2x5 What are the different methods of identifying use cases ? List the 8
ent process difference between essential and real use cases with suitable examples
avior . b ) Associations and attributes are essential components of a conceptual
b ) What are the important components of a use case model ? Illustrate the 9
importance of use case diagram for a system being developed .
model . Do you agree or disagree ? Justify your opinion .
7
7 a ) What is a collaboration diagram ? How do we represent mutually
exclusive conditions in a collaboration diagram ? Justify with an
example .
a ) What are the GRASP patterns ? Explain with an example how you g
apply the creator pattern during object design .
b ) What do you mean by system behaviour ? List its types . Explain the 8
guidelines for preparing a contract .
b ) Why is class diagram important ? Explain the structure of a class 7
diagram with a necessary figure . Also list the difference of a Class
diagram during analysis phase and design phase .
a ) What is a Contract ? How do you derive contract ? What are the 8
essential parts of a contract ? Explain its role taking an example .
b ) What do you understand by updating of class definitions ? Illustrate 7
with an example .
a ) Convert the given Design Class Diagram into an equivalent code . ( you 10
can choose any language like Java , C ++ , etc ) ..
F G H
CS
CamScanner


Page 10

Shape << lnterface + main Bachelor Semester
>>>> vold
draw : void Level : Programme : BE Oriented Design and Mo
Implements acks Course : Object UML
Implement Rectangle Endle ShopeMaker -circle creates Through
Square : Shape rectangle : Shape -square are required to give their
+ drawi ) ; void : Shape Candidates
+ draw ] : wold + draw + practicable .
) : void ShapeMaker ] + as indicate fu
Facade PatternDemo POKHARA : Fa
drawCircle ( ) : vold + drawRectangle What do you bj The figures in the margin
( ) : void + drawSquare understand by three architecture can all the questions .
) i vold tier architecture be deployed 7. Write Attempt
? How this in various configurations ? short notes on ( Any Two ) a ) Visibility
b ) Domain Analysis You are developing a system to hand checkout books and
c ) Exceptions and 5 : members may must keep track of which books :
error handling checked out .
UNIVE !
Each book and video has a uniqu
to index that book or video , a cl
library , checked out , checked "
number . A clerk may also check author
or on a video by supplyi
Each library member has a libr
number and the item number
borrower has no overdue bor
the borrower . The conditions
books and three days for vid
For the above case study :
a ) List use cases and
b ) Identify conceptur
c ) Create a sequen a book 01
borrow workflows
2. a ) Explain What do you mer
b )
with an example .
3. a ) What is a cont
suitable e
dia
CS
CamScanner


Page 11

POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2015 main : void
old ShapeMaker ( ) + drawCircle Candidates are required to give their answers in their
creates circle : Shape rectangle Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling : 3hrs . Time
acks Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100
Shape Maker Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45
: Shape -square : Shape Through UML
+ own words as far
( ) : void + drawRectangle as practicable .
) : vod + drawSquare ) : void The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
tier architecture ? Attempt all the questions .
How this onfigurations ? Library 15
5 members may checkout books must keep track of which books and videos each member currently has
You are developing a system to handle checkout duties at a library . and videos from the library . The system
checked out .
Each book and video has a unique item number that is used by the system
to index that book or video , a clerk may check the status of a book ( in the
library , checked out , checked out and overdue ) by supplying the item
number . A clerk may also check either on a book by supplying the title and author
or on a video by supplying only the title .
Each library member has a library card that includes his or her membership
number and the item number of the book or videos ( in total ) , and if the
borrower has no overdue books or videos , the book or video is loaned to
the borrower . The conditions of the loan include a due date ( two
weeks for books and three days for videotapes . ) .
For the above case study :
a ) List use cases and prepare use case diagram
. b ) Identify conceptual classes
, and prepare a domain model . c ) Create a
sequence diagram when a library member borrow a book
wants to or videotape . 2. a ) Explain workflows
of iterative software development model b ) What do you mean
. 7 by object oriented development with an example
cycle ? Explain . 8 3. a ) What is a contract ? Explain
different parts of the contract with suitable example . How do the contracts help diagram
in devising collaboration ? 00
]
CS
CamScanner


Page 12

POK b ) What is attribute visibility how it is visibility
different from parameter , explain with example . a ) Define
example 5 ) Explain conceptual class . Explain the role of domain modelling Level : Bachelor BE
the use of state chart diagram condition with an Programme : Object Oriented pri
? Show mutual exclusive in Collaboration diagram & 5. a ) How DCD Course : through UML
with example is different from Domain issues
7 models ? Explain in DCD . b ) Define
method name GRASP . Explain the purpose example ? Candidates are required to practicable .
7 of Creator 6. a ) Explain as
pattern with an steps of mapping design to b ) Convert the The figures in the margin
8 code with an example DCD to equivalent Attempt all the questions
. Flight nightNumber.Integer source code ( java / c ++
departureTime Date 3 ) . flighturation You are developing a syste
7 Plane airPlane Minutes departingAirport
Type : String maximumSpeed String angirport : String check store . Sales boy may
0.1 : MPH maximumDistance assigned delay
: Miles maximumSeats Flight Assigned Plan light numberofMinutes : Minutes getArrival Time must keep track
: Integer ) ( Date of which
7. Write short getRemainingSeats ) : Integer Each category of book an
notes on : ( Any two a ) Sequence the system to index that
) diagram b ) High
coupling pattern c ) UMI . multiple status of a book ( in stoc
perspectives also check either on a b 2x5 by supplying
only the tit
For the above case study
2 Vudes choosing use
a ) List use cases and ]
b ) Write down any o
diagram . 2. Case
Study Consider
an online tra
profile with a username
time if the user wants .
password . After l
rent flights . The us a
draw a
CS
CamScanner


Page 13

rameter POKHARA UNIVERSITY
delling with an Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2016
chat diagram diagram with example Course : Object Oriented programming and Design through UML Time : 3hrs .
? Show mutual exclusive Pass Marks : 45
wann from Domain models ? Explain method name Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
Explain the purpose pattern with an as The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
of Creator practicable .
ping design to code with an example . quivalent source code ( java / c ++ - ) . Attempt all the questions .
0. " 0.1 maximumSpeed : MPH maximumDistance store . Sales boy may checkout
and Fight AnnaPlan maximumSeats : Integer must keep track of which books and videos have been sold out .
Plane airPlane Type You are developing a system to handle checkout duties at a book and video
: String books and videos from the store . The system
: Miles
getRemainingSoats ] : Integer Each category of book and video has a unique item number that is used by
2x5 also check either on a book by supplying the only the title .
8
8
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
the system to index that specific book or video , a ' sales boy may check the
status of a book ( in stock or not ) by supplying the item number . He may
title and author or on a video
by supplying
For the above case study :
a ) List use cases and prepare use case diagram .
b ) Write down any one essential use case text from the above use case 7
diagram .
2. Case Study 15
Consider an online travel agency system . A new user can create a new
profile with a username and a password . This profile can be changed at any
time if the user wants . The user logs to the system using his / her username
and password . After logging into the system , the user inquires
about different flights . The user can book
, change or cancel a flight reservation . This includes
choosing a payment method , and making a payment
. a ) Now draw a use case model ( no description
required ) , Domain model ,
F H J K L
CS CamScanner


Page 14

POKE
3. a ) How are system event and system operation important . Assume the room online and draw a SSD for it . 7 Level : Programme : BE Object Oriented D
interaction diagrams and design class diagram from these information . Bachelor
scenario of reserving a hotel essential ? Assume the scenario of reserving a hotel Course : through UML
b ) Why are contracts for it . 8
room online and draw a contract required
b ) What are the GRASP patterns ? Explain with an example how you 7 as practicable figures in the mar
5. a ) What is visibility ? Describe the use of visibility among classes while 8 The Attempt all the questi
designing class diagram . role o
apply the creator pattern during object design .
What are interaction diagrams ? What are its types ? How is sequence 8 Candidates are
diagram similar to collaboration diagram ? .
b ) How procedure Analysis and Design is different from OOAD , 7 a ) What is the
different notations
6. a ) Describe the importance of interaction diagrams for developing AD , ther
methods during coding . 5 b ) In structural , behav
b ) Str
Crde creates Rectangle -rectangle Shape a ) Prepare a br
Implements ShapeMaker provision integrity and stan
FacadePatternDemo 2. Imagine you are hi Exam
+ main ( ) : void Shape University four - year / 8 - semeste
<< Interface >> exams .
+ draw ( ) : vold as college of doub
Implement -circle : Shape
Square -square : Shape document .
+ draw ) : void + draw ( ) : void + ShapeMaker ( ) ) Draw the
+ draw ( ) : void + drawOrcle ( ) : vold b
asks
+ drawRectangle ( ) : void diagrams .
+ drawSquare ) : void For the given diagram , develop What is th
the equivalent code in any high level programming language 3. a ) behavior of
. 7. Write short notes types of
on : ( Any two ) a ) 00 business
Development Cycle b ) Associations 2x5 brief , w
and Attributes c ) Patterns
10 different types o
2
CS CamScanner


Page 15

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
hotel Level : Bachelor Semester : Spring Year : 2016- Full Marks : 100
is sequence Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45 Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling
bin with an example how you Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
ject design . visibility among classes while as practicable .
e of 8 The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
sign is different from OOAD , 7 Attempt all the questions .
tion diagrams for developing 1. a ) What is the role of notations different notations used in UML with brief notes of each .
5 b ) In OOAD , there are various types of models , like conceptual , 3 + 4
creates -circle : Shape -rectangle Shape a ) Prepare a brief SRS document of PU - EMS with all details as per SRS
FacadePattern Demo different types of model ? Explain with illustrative examples . 2. Imagine you are hired as IT consultant for the task of building Pokhara 8 + 7
+ main ( ) : void University Exam Management System ( PU - EMS ) , considering your university board exam as well
tasks as college exams . As a domain study , you have found out there is the
ShapeMaker provision of double checking of all the questions and copies to ensure the
-square : Shape document .
+ Shape Maker ( ) b ) Draw the Use - case diagrams for this system with proper stick
+ drawOrcle ( ) : vold
+ drawRectangle ( ) : void diagrams .
+ drawSquare ) : void 3. a ) What is the role of constraint specifications in defining
t code in any high level behavior model diagram ? The model below depicts about possible types of accounts within
2x5 the portfolio sub - head in any banking business domain . Identify the constraints highlighted
10 structural , behavioural , etc. What is the significance of these many
Time : 3hrs . through UML
in a modelling tool ? Illustrate any five 3 + 5
four - year / 8 - semester exposure of the overall
integrity and standard of all of the processes .
the systems 2 + 5
and explain in brief , what they mean .
1
CS CamScanner


Page 16

Portfollo Cours
Shool
has 1 ..
Department
Corporation attends
( secure ) for the
BankAccount ( or ) Student diagram Ques
Person class developed for
gender : ( female , male ) | 0..1 Prepare the
wife already followings : versus Y - a
0..1 have diagra
husband epare the right ) )
( self.wife.gender = female and axis ( Left - Interaction in Ad
self.husband.gender = male } X - Sequence ( Joining
b ) List out all the possible association types , which exist in UML based 8 versus behavioral
Object Oriented design , with sample drawings of cach type with clear Forking Structural versus Any two
labelling of association , attribute , naming , and adornments . on : ( in Q
4. a ) The model depicts the online order processing system as illustrated in 2+ Write short notes Engineering
below diagram . Explain in detail of the diagram type with every Reverse CRC
symbols being used and semantics of this diagram . a ) Analysis using handling thro
[32mOrder Taker Credit CardAgent OrderFufillment : Billing Agent b ) c ) Exception
submitOrder
processCard
1 ...
placeOrder
IriggerBill
acknowledgeOrder
See Credit Failure
for a variation of this b )
scenario . Present the mapping process
for the above model using object - oriented based pseudo - codes 8
for capturing all important aspects of the model diagram . 5.
a ) Prepare sample codes that should associations
cover all of the classes , existing and other details depicted 8
through following model diagram .
2
CS CamScanner


Page 17

son member assigned To
male , male ) 0..1
0..1 wife attends teaches Instructor
sband Student Courso 1 .. "
0..1 1 . chairperson
ife.gender = female and usband.gender b ) Prepare the class diagram for the SRS and Use case diagrams that you 7
= male ] hich exist have already developed for Question No. 2 system .
in UML based 5 of cach 6. Compare the followings : Information ordering in 3 × 5
type with clear adornments 8 a ) X - axis ( Left - right ) versus Y - axis ( top - down ) Sequence ( Interaction ) diagram
.
system as illustrated in 2 + 5 b ) Forking versus Joining in Activity diagram
gram type with every c ) Structural versus behavioral patterns in design reuse
am . 7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5
llment BillingAgent b ) Analysis using CRC c ) Exception handling
riggerBill
Sea Credit Failure variation of this
for a
Scenario . 8
ove model using aspects
Il important
e classes , existing following model
8
0..1
has School Department
1 .. "
a ) Reverse Engineering in OOD
through UML
3
CS CamScanner


Page 18

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100
Programme : BE Oriented Design and Modeling Pass Marks : 45
Course : Object Time : 3hrs .
through UML
2017
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
1. a ) Explain the difference between Object Oriented Analysis and Object Oriented Design with an example ?
b ) Explain the role of UML model in software design ? Explain types of
use cases with examples . incremental and iterative software 7
2. a ) Explain difference between
development model . Explain the purpose of 8
7
b ) Explain system event and system response ?
SSD with an example .
3. a ) Explain the guidelines for preparing a contract with its purpose . 7
b ) What is Global visibility how it is different from parameter visibility , 8
explain with example .
4. a ) Define conceptual class . Explain the role of domain modeling with an 8
example .
b ) Explain the use of state chart diagram ? Show mutual exclusive 7
condition in Collaboration diagram with example .
5. a ) How DCD is different from Domain models ? Explain method name 7
issues in DCD .
b ) Define GRASP . Explain the purpose of Controller pattern with an 8
example ?
6. CASE STUDY : Draw equivalent use case , sequence diagram and class
diagram for the given scenario below . 15
A customer wants to draw money from his bank account . He enters his
card into an ATM ( automated teller machine ) . The ATM machine prompts
" Enter PIN " . The customer enters his PIN The ATM ( internally
.
) retrieves the bank account number from the card The ATM
. encrypts the
PIN and
CS CamScanner


