Page 1

6. Online Learning platforms help students to search for criteria . If the system shows a suitable course then the students registers for courses as per their 15 the course and paying for it . Interaction with teacher can be done by registered students . Students need to attend the class and submit their assignments regularly . Students who attended 80 % of the classes and submitted all their assignment are awarded with a course completion certificate at the end of the course . Also , the system facilitates the students to cancel their registration and refund the payment if it is done within a week .
Now draw a use case model ( no description required ) , Domain model , interaction diagrams and design class diagram from these information .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Functional Vs. Non - Functional Requirements 2x5
b ) Coupling and cohesion
c ) Reverse Engineering


Page 2

POKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester : Fall IS Year : 2022 Full Marks : 100
Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling subinit their he classes and Time
by Level : Bachelor Programme Pass Marks : 45 3hrs .
se completion students through UML their...


Page 3

8 What is visibility ? Describe the use of attribute and parameter visibility Level : Bach
5. a ) among classes while designing class diagrams . Programme
b ) Draw system sequence diagram for enterItem in POS . Explain system . events and system operation . 7 Course : Ob th
7 6. 2 ) What is the significance of studying exception and error handling in
objects oriented analysis and design ? Explain briefly about exception Candidate
handling technique . practic
b ) Explain the process of mapping design to code ( both class definition as figur
and method definition ) with example . Support your answer 8 The
by using a design class diagram and collaboration diagram . Attempt
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Functional Vs. Non - Functional Requirements 2x5 a ) Expla
b ) Operation contract Orien
c ) Representation of system behavior b ) Why
disc
2. a ) Dise
3 . a ) W
dur
b ) Wh
ex
do
b ) " T
a
4 . Cas
а
Onl
mo
CS CamScanner
the
av
pr
d


Page 4

S Explain system Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Semester Full Marks Pass Marka : 45
and error handling in Course : Object Oriented through UML Time far
ely about exception to give their answers in their own words as
code ( both class Candidates are required as practicable .
pport your answer 00 The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
gram . Attempt all the questions . and Object- 7
2 × 5 a ) Explain the difference between Object - Oriented and
POKHARA UNIVERSITY Spring Year : 100
Design and Modeling
Analysis
Oriented Design with an example . is use case description important ? Provide an example ४
b ) Why discuss about the important section of a use case description . role 8
2. a ) Discuss about the different phases of unified process development .
and their
during software Explain different parts of contract with suitable 7
b ) What is a contract ?
example . a conceptual model ? How is a 7
3. a ) What is the purpose of developing model represented ? Discuss its components .
domain
b ) " Designers make a bridge between customer requirements and the 8
actual working code " , Justify this statement using major sets of design
artifacts .
4. Case Study 15
Online Medical Store system allows us access their system with a valid
mobile number . We can search for medicines in their systems by providing
the doctor's prescription list . The prescription list is compared and a list
of available medicines is displayed to us . Then we select
the medicines and proceed to checkout and make payment
. We also indicate the address for delivery . The system displays
the expected delivery date . After that , a SMS with the delivery details
is sent to our mobile number . Also facilitates the customers
, the system to cancel their order 1 week no cancellation
before delivery with charge . After 1 week no cancellation Draw a use
can be made . case model , Domain model , collaboration class diagram from
diagrams and design these information .
CS CamScanner


Page 5

5. a ) Discuss the scope and visibility of objects . Elaborate the use of local visibility in details
parameter visibility and coupling affect a good design ? Explain with 8
b ) How , cohesion and
suitable points .
7
6. a ) Explain about Fault , error and failure with relevant examples . Discuss 8
the steps to handle exception in object oriented programming .
b ) Designs are for programmers not for end users . Show how different 7
design diagrams help programmers for writing code .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2 × 5
a ) Conceptual class category list
b ) Collection Classes
c ) Information expert
+
CS CamScanner


Page 6

With Level : Bachelor Modelling through Pass Marks Time : 3hrs .
amples . Discuss Programme : BE Course : Object Oriented Design and words as far
ming UML answers in their own
how different are required to give their
2x5 The figures in the margin indicate full questions .
POKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100 : 45
: 2023
Candidates practicable . marks .
as
Attempt all the Oriented Analysis and Object- 7
1. a ) relationship Explain the difference between Design with an example . 8
b ) What is Use case diagram ? Explain . Draw Use Case Diagram for Online Hotel Reservation
include and extends Oriented
with example
System . contract ? Explain different parts of contract with suitable 8
Object -
2. a ) What is a
example . conceptual model ? How is a 7
b ) What is the purpose of developing a model represented ? Discuss its components .
domain
3. a ) What is the purpose of using system sequence diagram ? Explain it 8
with suitable example .
b ) What is class diagram and why they are important in designing the 7
software system ? How are classes linked to each other ? Show with
different relationship used in class diagram with examples .
8 a ) What is GRASP and list out all the patterns also provide the reason why design patterns are used
4.
in object oriented design ? Explain the use of low coupling and high
cohesion . b ) Discuss the scope
and visibility of objects . Elaborate the parameter
use of visibility and local visibility in details 7 Explain
5. a ) the overall process
of Object - Oriented Software Development ( analysis
8 , design and modelling , implementation b ) Explain the process
) . of mapping design to code ( and method definition
both class definition ) with example . 7 6. Differentiate
a ) error and exceptions
. How are exceptions UML diagram ? Explain .
handled in 7
Page 1 of 2
CS CamScanner


Page 7

b ) Why is it important to list the requirements before making the actual 8
design ? Explain with the help of Library Management System .
2x5 7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Unified process
b ) Sequence vs Collaboration diagram
c ) Creating methods from collaboration diagram
CS CamScanner


