Page 1

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester Fall Year : 2012 Full Marks : 100
Programme : DE and Modelling Pass Marks : 45
Course : Object Oriented Design through UML Time : 3hrs .
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable ,
as marks .
The figures in the margin indicate full
Anempt all the questions ,
What are various notations provided by the UML for capturing the 7
static and dynamic aspects of a software system ? Explain with figures .
Explain how the change in requirements is handled on an iterative iterative and incremental 8
development . List out the advantage of an
process of software development over waterfall development process .
What is the basic procedure to find out the use cases ? List benefits of
writing use cases during software development process ?
Explain when the changes occur in mapping design to code . 5 
How do we assign responsibilities to objects ? Explain with a suitable บ 5
example .
What are various relationships that might exist between different 8
domain elements ? Explain using a Patient billing system as an
example .
What are the important contents of a Post condition of an operation
contract ? How is mapping of these operation contracts done during 7
Object Oriented design phase ?
OR
Define role of multiplicity and non primitive types with suitable 7
examples .
a ) What is the significance of using interaction diagram during design
? Compare and contrast system sequence diagram and collaboration 8
diagram in terms of its weakness and strength .
b ) When is it desirable to use Controller pattern instead of
using Information expert pattern when assigning responsibility to objects 7
? a ) What are the conditions for preparing a contract
? Does writing 1 7
CS
CamScanner


Page 2

0 . change and devintion during programming phase ? Explain Case Study : Online Bachelo
contracts leads to domain model updates POKHARA UNIVERSI
, defend your b ) Why is it desirable to expect the Semester : Spring
answer . and plan for design even
from Hotel Reservation System When making a reservation nel amme : BE Oriented Design and Modelli
a customer must information To speed Object
register his her . up the process details of previous stored and made available later urse ugh UML
personal customers will . By this system the customer reservation and cancel it . When making are required to give their answ choose the number
be can make a reservation the Candidates transportation etc ) of rooms , the type of
customer can . The reservation is confirmed when of the total charges . After the reservation room , services ( laundry the margin indicate full mar of the details
customer pay 10 % , the customer will get an e , meal , figures in of the reservation . Within a hotel there is a reservation controlling Attempt all the questions .
- mail administrator reservations at the no - shows
who is responsible for hotel . He is also responsible ( When the reservation at the hotel date ) and makes a reservation Differentiate between state transition
for processing doesn't show up at reserved for a customer . Now answer the following a ) component diagram and deployme !
questions : Identify all the use cases write examples .
and actors and draw all the course of events b ) Draw Describe the importance of Unified ]
a use case diagram for one use case . class diagram for the 7. Write describe briefly all the phases of Unif
. Also above scenario . short notes on any a ) Define Use Cases . How Use Cases b
two : Visibility h process explain with an example .
) Relationship Describe the importance
between GRASP and UML c ) High cohesion of Contra detail for at least
and low coupling one system oper
2 suitable exam Map the fo
your own .
What are the activities perform
process ? How can potential domai
be identified ?
b ) " Well designed interaction diagr
analysis and designed ' , Justify y
exclusive condition of UML Coll :
a ) Show with an example how can
a Collaboration diagram and a Se between k
b ) What is the difference
How does making use of Design
responsibilities to objects ? Qupling
a ) How cohesion
b ) to c
ara supports
3 2
ER T
CS
CamScanner


Page 3

d your for
answer . change and deviation ing programming phase ? Explain Reservation
from System ion a customer must register the details Bachelor POKHARA UNIVERSITY Year : 2012
his her process of previous later . By this system Level : Programme : BE Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100 Marks : 45 .
personal customers will the customer When making a reservation the ns , the type of Pass Time Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling Through UML : 3hrs .
be can make customer room , services ervation is confirmed Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
can ( laundry , meal when customer he reservation , the customer as practicable .
, pay 10 will get The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
% an e mail ervation administrator Attempt all the questions .
- who hotel
is responsible . He is also responsible 8
for for processing ion at the hotel doesn't show for a customer 5 ) Differentiate between state transition diagram and activity diagram , component diagram and deployment diagram with appropriate 7
up at reserved . stions examples .
ол .
: Process in OOAD . List out and
nd actors and draw Describe the importance of Unified describe briefly all the phases of Unified Process .
a use case diagram ts for one
. Also use case . 3 ) Define Use Cases . How Use Cases benefits the software development
above scenario . process explain with an example .
P and UML your own What are the activities performed during the domain modeling 8
ing process ? How can potential domain elements for a particular scenario
7
b ) Describe the importance of Contract in OOAD . Explain contract in detail for at least one system operation for any kind of example of . 8
.
be identified ?
b ) ' Well designed interaction diagram are valuable in object oriented 7
analysis and designed ' , Justify your answer . Describe the mutually
exclusive condition of UML Collaboration diagram .
a ) Show with an example how can conditional messages be portrayed in 7
a Collaboration diagram and a Sequence diagram .
b ) What is the difference between knowing and doing responsibilities ? 8
How does making use of Design Patterns help in correctly assigning
responsibilities to objects ?
a ) How cohesion and coupling affect good design , explain with a 7
suitable example ?
b ) Map the following design to code in any programming language that 8
supports Object Oriented Paradigm
1
Tab H LL F
QWER
D
D
CS CamScanner


Page 4

7 . exceptions Write short notes on : ( Any two ) example . Distinguish be
Scavor POKHARA
Robot Actuators Candidates as practicable .
pickItem ( ) moveBackward ( ) Attempt all the questions .
dropliem ( )
has Through
has N state ; The figures in the margin india
tot
moveForward (
6. a ) Explain how code can be generated from collaboration diagram and a ) " Good and Precise Requir State Expanded Use case
design class diagram . Explain with a suitable example . and alternative flow .
b ) What do you mean by fault , error and failure ? How are perceiv
addressed by UML ? b ) How are objects
a ) Code reuse Design .
b ) Real Use Cases . Why do you make a sys
c ) Requirements Capture . a ) while designing domain
Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Sem
Course : Object Oriented Design UML
are required to give
b ) Describe the importance
2 an , librarian and
contract , justify your an
a ) Define the term visibi
between objects ? Illust
b ) Explain the importanc
coupling effect design Distinguish between
4. a )
designing Design Clas
b ) How does design trac
design phase and cod
reasoning ?
ibrary Management Syst
stem Description : Library
system is a type
s to different
CS CamScanner


Page 5

$ moveForward ( The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Actuators Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable .
int state . 125
movellaakwand Attempt all the questions .
POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2013
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100 Course : Object Oriented Design and
Modeling UML Pass Marks : 45
Through Time : 3hrs .
rated from collaboration diagram and State Expanded Use case with suitable example describing main flow
ith a suitable example . and alternative flow .ror and failure ? How are 7 b ) How are objects perceived in design phase ? Explain with suitable exceptions
" Good and Precise Requirements leads to good design " , justify it . 8
example . Distinguish between OOAD and Structural Analysis and
Design . 2
a ) Why do you make a system sequence diagram ? Explain all the steps 7
while designing domain model with example ?
b ) Describe the importance of contract in OOAD . Design is initiated by S
contract , justify your answer with suitable example .
a ) Define the term visibility and explain different types of visibility
between objects ? Illustrate with an example .
b ) Explain the importance of pattern in design . How do cohesion and 7
coupling effect design ? Explain .
a ) Distinguish between class and object , what are the major factors for
designing Design Class Diagram ( DCD ) , explain with suitable logic .
b ) How does design traces and adjusts the change of requirement during
design phase and coding phase ? Explain with suitable example and 7
reasoning ?
Library Management System
System Description :
This system is a Library management system which controls and grants
access to different types of users such as system administrator , head
librarian , librarian and members . This system should be able to manage
K Q W
E H
Tab T G
A S D ?
Caps
Lock V B
LL
CS
CamScanner


Page 6

books , loans , late fees , searching of books , should be able Semester : Fal
to keep members in a queue for loans . It should be Bachelor
able to generate automatic email and SMS message before expiry of book loan .. wel : regramme : BE
Add qualitative requirements according to the need of the scenario Course Object Oriented Design and Mod UML
. a ) Draw complete use case diagram . : through
b ) Draw behavioral model of this case .
6. a ) Explain how can code be generated from Candidates are required to give their a
collaboration diagram . Explain taking suitable examples . b ) State the importance of practicable . indicate full
development process in design . What do you understand by updating of class definitions The figures in the margin
? Illustrate with an example . 7. Write short notes on : ( Attempt all the questions .
Any two ) a ) Error and Exception
handling . b ) Unified Process How is Object Oriented Analysi
. c ) Activity from other paradigms ? Write
Diagram . oriented
POKHARA UNIVE
approach .
b ) What are the important com
Illustrate the importance of us
developed .
a ) What do you mean by Syst
Draw a System Sequence di
Library system . Write d
b ) What is a contract ?
event explaining the signifi Model '
a ) What is a Domain
Model ? Explain with exam b associations and
) Define
consideration , draw the association
represent the choose any syst
free to
System ) 4. and list
a ) Define pattern di
How Expert pattern examples ?
suitable make a co
b ) How do you interaction di
Why is different types of inte
Explain how code ca
CS
CamScanner


Page 7

able to keep members POKHARA UNIVERSITY
rate automatic email Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2014
and Level : Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
e need of the scenario . Course Object Oriented Design and Modelling Pass Marks : 45
from collaboration diagram Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
. s practicable . as
cess in design . What do The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
you nitions ? Illustrate with an Attempt all the questions .
: UML : 3hrs . Time
through
a ) How is Object Oriented Analysis and Design paradigm different 7
from other paradigms ? Write down the advantages of object
oriented approach .
b ) What are the important components of a use case model ? 8
Illustrate the importance of use case diagram for a system being
developed ..
Caps
b ) What is a contract ? Write down a contract for enterItem system 7
event explaining the significance of post conditions ?
a ) What do you mean by System Event and System Operation ? 8
Draw a System Sequence diagram for return book use case of a
Library system .
a ) What is a Domain Model ? How do you construct the Domain 7
Model ? Explain with example .
b ) Define associations and attributes . Taking a system into 8 .
consideration , draw the necessary classes of the system and
represent the association and attributes of these classes . ( You are
free to choose any system of your choice like POS , Library
System )
4. a ) Define pattern and list out different types of GRASP pattern . 8
How Expert pattern differs from Creator pattern , explain with
suitable examples ? model ? Illustrate .
b ) How do you make a conceptual 5. a ) Why is interaction diagrams used ? Compare and contrast the 7
different types of interaction diagrams . Explain how code can be generated from collaboration diagram
b ) 7
1
8
N
CS
CamScanner


Page 8

and design class diagram . Justify with necessary examples Bachelor Design and Modelling\n. Case Study BE Oriented answers in t\nIn hospital a patient goes to registration machine he Object anes UML their\npress the on button then the screen opens . He enters patient id number for through required to give\n. He books the doctor for his checkup . He checks the category\nof disease from given list , then he chooses doctor's name from list , he are full marks .\ngiven doctors name enters time he wants to meet with doctor he need to enters es indicate practicable .\n. For this registration the amount , if the amount digit is ok registration and the margin\nit accepts the prints the registration slip , otherwise it will give signal of alarm of in sufficient res in questions . F\na amount . Now draw a use case model ( no description interaction tall the and disciplines of\ninformation . required ) , Domain model , diagrams and design class diagram from these 7. Explain different phases important components of a u\nWrite short notes on : ( Any two What are the diagram for a syste\n) a ) Exceptions and case\nError Handling b ) Programming importance of use methods of ide\nand development process c ) Representation 2x What are the different and real use\nof system behavior . xfcifference between essential essenti\nPOKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester Spring\nAssociations and attributes are agree or disagree ? Just\nmodel . Do you collaboration diagram ?\nWhat is a conditions in a collabo\nexclusive\nexample . be\nWhat do you mean by system '\nguidelines for preparing a contract\n2 ) What are the GRASP patterns ?\napply the creator pattern durin\nb ) Why is class diagram impor\ndiagram with a necessary fig\ndiagram during analysis phase\na ) What is a Contract ? How\nessential parts of a contract ?\nb ) What do you understand\nwith an example .\n6. a ) Convert the given Desigr\ncan choose any language\n2\nCS\nCamScanner


Page 9

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
he press the on 15 Level : Bachelor Semester Spring = Year Full Marks : 100
ent id number . He books of disease Programme : BE : 3hrs . Time Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling
cape checks from doctor's name from given doctors name through UML Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
the category
t , if the amount digit accepts the slip otherwise it will give as practicable The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
t is ok it .
gistration , a amount . questions .
o description required ) , Domain model , design class diagram from Rational Unified Process ? 6
these a ) Explain different phases and disciplines of
: 2014
Attempt all the
Ling 2x5 What are the different methods of identifying use cases ? List the 8
ent process difference between essential and real use cases with suitable examples
avior . b ) Associations and attributes are essential components of a conceptual
b ) What are the important components of a use case model ? Illustrate the 9
importance of use case diagram for a system being developed .
model . Do you agree or disagree ? Justify your opinion .
7
7 a ) What is a collaboration diagram ? How do we represent mutually
exclusive conditions in a collaboration diagram ? Justify with an
example .
a ) What are the GRASP patterns ? Explain with an example how you g
apply the creator pattern during object design .
b ) What do you mean by system behaviour ? List its types . Explain the 8
guidelines for preparing a contract .
b ) Why is class diagram important ? Explain the structure of a class 7
diagram with a necessary figure . Also list the difference of a Class
diagram during analysis phase and design phase .
a ) What is a Contract ? How do you derive contract ? What are the 8
essential parts of a contract ? Explain its role taking an example .
b ) What do you understand by updating of class definitions ? Illustrate 7
with an example .
a ) Convert the given Design Class Diagram into an equivalent code . ( you 10
can choose any language like Java , C ++ , etc ) ..
F G H
CS
CamScanner


Page 10

Shape << lnterface + main Bachelor Semester
>>>> vold
draw : void Level : Programme : BE Oriented Design and Mo
Implements acks Course : Object UML
Implement Rectangle Endle ShopeMaker -circle creates Through
Square : Shape rectangle : Shape -square are required to give their
+ drawi ) ; void : Shape Candidates
+ draw ] : wold + draw + practicable .
) : void ShapeMaker ] + as indicate fu
Facade PatternDemo POKHARA : Fa
drawCircle ( ) : vold + drawRectangle What do you bj The figures in the margin
( ) : void + drawSquare understand by three architecture can all the questions .
) i vold tier architecture be deployed 7. Write Attempt
? How this in various configurations ? short notes on ( Any Two ) a ) Visibility
b ) Domain Analysis You are developing a system to hand checkout books and
c ) Exceptions and 5 : members may must keep track of which books :
error handling checked out .
UNIVE !
Each book and video has a uniqu
to index that book or video , a cl
library , checked out , checked "
number . A clerk may also check author
or on a video by supplyi
Each library member has a libr
number and the item number
borrower has no overdue bor
the borrower . The conditions
books and three days for vid
For the above case study :
a ) List use cases and
b ) Identify conceptur
c ) Create a sequen a book 01
borrow workflows
2. a ) Explain What do you mer
b )
with an example .
3. a ) What is a cont
suitable e
dia
CS
CamScanner


Page 11

POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2015 main : void
old ShapeMaker ( ) + drawCircle Candidates are required to give their answers in their
creates circle : Shape rectangle Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling : 3hrs . Time
acks Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100
Shape Maker Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45
: Shape -square : Shape Through UML
+ own words as far
( ) : void + drawRectangle as practicable .
) : vod + drawSquare ) : void The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
tier architecture ? Attempt all the questions .
How this onfigurations ? Library 15
5 members may checkout books must keep track of which books and videos each member currently has
You are developing a system to handle checkout duties at a library . and videos from the library . The system
checked out .
Each book and video has a unique item number that is used by the system
to index that book or video , a clerk may check the status of a book ( in the
library , checked out , checked out and overdue ) by supplying the item
number . A clerk may also check either on a book by supplying the title and author
or on a video by supplying only the title .
Each library member has a library card that includes his or her membership
number and the item number of the book or videos ( in total ) , and if the
borrower has no overdue books or videos , the book or video is loaned to
the borrower . The conditions of the loan include a due date ( two
weeks for books and three days for videotapes . ) .
For the above case study :
a ) List use cases and prepare use case diagram
. b ) Identify conceptual classes
, and prepare a domain model . c ) Create a
sequence diagram when a library member borrow a book
wants to or videotape . 2. a ) Explain workflows
of iterative software development model b ) What do you mean
. 7 by object oriented development with an example
cycle ? Explain . 8 3. a ) What is a contract ? Explain
different parts of the contract with suitable example . How do the contracts help diagram
in devising collaboration ? 00
]
CS
CamScanner


Page 12

POK b ) What is attribute visibility how it is visibility
different from parameter , explain with example . a ) Define
example 5 ) Explain conceptual class . Explain the role of domain modelling Level : Bachelor BE
the use of state chart diagram condition with an Programme : Object Oriented pri
? Show mutual exclusive in Collaboration diagram & 5. a ) How DCD Course : through UML
with example is different from Domain issues
7 models ? Explain in DCD . b ) Define
method name GRASP . Explain the purpose example ? Candidates are required to practicable .
7 of Creator 6. a ) Explain as
pattern with an steps of mapping design to b ) Convert the The figures in the margin
8 code with an example DCD to equivalent Attempt all the questions
. Flight nightNumber.Integer source code ( java / c ++
departureTime Date 3 ) . flighturation You are developing a syste
7 Plane airPlane Minutes departingAirport
Type : String maximumSpeed String angirport : String check store . Sales boy may
0.1 : MPH maximumDistance assigned delay
: Miles maximumSeats Flight Assigned Plan light numberofMinutes : Minutes getArrival Time must keep track
: Integer ) ( Date of which
7. Write short getRemainingSeats ) : Integer Each category of book an
notes on : ( Any two a ) Sequence the system to index that
) diagram b ) High
coupling pattern c ) UMI . multiple status of a book ( in stoc
perspectives also check either on a b 2x5 by supplying
only the tit
For the above case study
2 Vudes choosing use
a ) List use cases and ]
b ) Write down any o
diagram . 2. Case
Study Consider
an online tra
profile with a username
time if the user wants .
password . After l
rent flights . The us a
draw a
CS
CamScanner


Page 13

rameter POKHARA UNIVERSITY
delling with an Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2016
chat diagram diagram with example Course : Object Oriented programming and Design through UML Time : 3hrs .
? Show mutual exclusive Pass Marks : 45
wann from Domain models ? Explain method name Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
Explain the purpose pattern with an as The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
of Creator practicable .
ping design to code with an example . quivalent source code ( java / c ++ - ) . Attempt all the questions .
0. " 0.1 maximumSpeed : MPH maximumDistance store . Sales boy may checkout
and Fight AnnaPlan maximumSeats : Integer must keep track of which books and videos have been sold out .
Plane airPlane Type You are developing a system to handle checkout duties at a book and video
: String books and videos from the store . The system
: Miles
getRemainingSoats ] : Integer Each category of book and video has a unique item number that is used by
2x5 also check either on a book by supplying the only the title .
8
8
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
the system to index that specific book or video , a ' sales boy may check the
status of a book ( in stock or not ) by supplying the item number . He may
title and author or on a video
by supplying
For the above case study :
a ) List use cases and prepare use case diagram .
b ) Write down any one essential use case text from the above use case 7
diagram .
2. Case Study 15
Consider an online travel agency system . A new user can create a new
profile with a username and a password . This profile can be changed at any
time if the user wants . The user logs to the system using his / her username
and password . After logging into the system , the user inquires
about different flights . The user can book
, change or cancel a flight reservation . This includes
choosing a payment method , and making a payment
. a ) Now draw a use case model ( no description
required ) , Domain model ,
F H J K L
CS CamScanner


Page 14

POKE
3. a ) How are system event and system operation important . Assume the room online and draw a SSD for it . 7 Level : Programme : BE Object Oriented D
interaction diagrams and design class diagram from these information . Bachelor
scenario of reserving a hotel essential ? Assume the scenario of reserving a hotel Course : through UML
b ) Why are contracts for it . 8
room online and draw a contract required
b ) What are the GRASP patterns ? Explain with an example how you 7 as practicable figures in the mar
5. a ) What is visibility ? Describe the use of visibility among classes while 8 The Attempt all the questi
designing class diagram . role o
apply the creator pattern during object design .
What are interaction diagrams ? What are its types ? How is sequence 8 Candidates are
diagram similar to collaboration diagram ? .
b ) How procedure Analysis and Design is different from OOAD , 7 a ) What is the
different notations
6. a ) Describe the importance of interaction diagrams for developing AD , ther
methods during coding . 5 b ) In structural , behav
b ) Str
Crde creates Rectangle -rectangle Shape a ) Prepare a br
Implements ShapeMaker provision integrity and stan
FacadePatternDemo 2. Imagine you are hi Exam
+ main ( ) : void Shape University four - year / 8 - semeste
<< Interface >> exams .
+ draw ( ) : vold as college of doub
Implement -circle : Shape
Square -square : Shape document .
+ draw ) : void + draw ( ) : void + ShapeMaker ( ) ) Draw the
+ draw ( ) : void + drawOrcle ( ) : vold b
asks
+ drawRectangle ( ) : void diagrams .
+ drawSquare ) : void For the given diagram , develop What is th
the equivalent code in any high level programming language 3. a ) behavior of
. 7. Write short notes types of
on : ( Any two ) a ) 00 business
Development Cycle b ) Associations 2x5 brief , w
and Attributes c ) Patterns
10 different types o
2
CS CamScanner


Page 15

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
hotel Level : Bachelor Semester : Spring Year : 2016- Full Marks : 100
is sequence Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45 Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling
bin with an example how you Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
ject design . visibility among classes while as practicable .
e of 8 The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
sign is different from OOAD , 7 Attempt all the questions .
tion diagrams for developing 1. a ) What is the role of notations different notations used in UML with brief notes of each .
5 b ) In OOAD , there are various types of models , like conceptual , 3 + 4
creates -circle : Shape -rectangle Shape a ) Prepare a brief SRS document of PU - EMS with all details as per SRS
FacadePattern Demo different types of model ? Explain with illustrative examples . 2. Imagine you are hired as IT consultant for the task of building Pokhara 8 + 7
+ main ( ) : void University Exam Management System ( PU - EMS ) , considering your university board exam as well
tasks as college exams . As a domain study , you have found out there is the
ShapeMaker provision of double checking of all the questions and copies to ensure the
-square : Shape document .
+ Shape Maker ( ) b ) Draw the Use - case diagrams for this system with proper stick
+ drawOrcle ( ) : vold
+ drawRectangle ( ) : void diagrams .
+ drawSquare ) : void 3. a ) What is the role of constraint specifications in defining
t code in any high level behavior model diagram ? The model below depicts about possible types of accounts within
2x5 the portfolio sub - head in any banking business domain . Identify the constraints highlighted
10 structural , behavioural , etc. What is the significance of these many
Time : 3hrs . through UML
in a modelling tool ? Illustrate any five 3 + 5
four - year / 8 - semester exposure of the overall
integrity and standard of all of the processes .
the systems 2 + 5
and explain in brief , what they mean .
1
CS CamScanner


Page 16

Portfollo Cours
Shool
has 1 ..
Department
Corporation attends
( secure ) for the
BankAccount ( or ) Student diagram Ques
Person class developed for
gender : ( female , male ) | 0..1 Prepare the
wife already followings : versus Y - a
0..1 have diagra
husband epare the right ) )
( self.wife.gender = female and axis ( Left - Interaction in Ad
self.husband.gender = male } X - Sequence ( Joining
b ) List out all the possible association types , which exist in UML based 8 versus behavioral
Object Oriented design , with sample drawings of cach type with clear Forking Structural versus Any two
labelling of association , attribute , naming , and adornments . on : ( in Q
4. a ) The model depicts the online order processing system as illustrated in 2+ Write short notes Engineering
below diagram . Explain in detail of the diagram type with every Reverse CRC
symbols being used and semantics of this diagram . a ) Analysis using handling thro
[32mOrder Taker Credit CardAgent OrderFufillment : Billing Agent b ) c ) Exception
submitOrder
processCard
1 ...
placeOrder
IriggerBill
acknowledgeOrder
See Credit Failure
for a variation of this b )
scenario . Present the mapping process
for the above model using object - oriented based pseudo - codes 8
for capturing all important aspects of the model diagram . 5.
a ) Prepare sample codes that should associations
cover all of the classes , existing and other details depicted 8
through following model diagram .
2
CS CamScanner


Page 17

son member assigned To
male , male ) 0..1
0..1 wife attends teaches Instructor
sband Student Courso 1 .. "
0..1 1 . chairperson
ife.gender = female and usband.gender b ) Prepare the class diagram for the SRS and Use case diagrams that you 7
= male ] hich exist have already developed for Question No. 2 system .
in UML based 5 of cach 6. Compare the followings : Information ordering in 3 × 5
type with clear adornments 8 a ) X - axis ( Left - right ) versus Y - axis ( top - down ) Sequence ( Interaction ) diagram
.
system as illustrated in 2 + 5 b ) Forking versus Joining in Activity diagram
gram type with every c ) Structural versus behavioral patterns in design reuse
am . 7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5
llment BillingAgent b ) Analysis using CRC c ) Exception handling
riggerBill
Sea Credit Failure variation of this
for a
Scenario . 8
ove model using aspects
Il important
e classes , existing following model
8
0..1
has School Department
1 .. "
a ) Reverse Engineering in OOD
through UML
3
CS CamScanner


Page 18

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100
Programme : BE Oriented Design and Modeling Pass Marks : 45
Course : Object Time : 3hrs .
through UML
2017
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
1. a ) Explain the difference between Object Oriented Analysis and Object Oriented Design with an example ?
b ) Explain the role of UML model in software design ? Explain types of
use cases with examples . incremental and iterative software 7
2. a ) Explain difference between
development model . Explain the purpose of 8
7
b ) Explain system event and system response ?
SSD with an example .
3. a ) Explain the guidelines for preparing a contract with its purpose . 7
b ) What is Global visibility how it is different from parameter visibility , 8
explain with example .
4. a ) Define conceptual class . Explain the role of domain modeling with an 8
example .
b ) Explain the use of state chart diagram ? Show mutual exclusive 7
condition in Collaboration diagram with example .
5. a ) How DCD is different from Domain models ? Explain method name 7
issues in DCD .
b ) Define GRASP . Explain the purpose of Controller pattern with an 8
example ?
6. CASE STUDY : Draw equivalent use case , sequence diagram and class
diagram for the given scenario below . 15
A customer wants to draw money from his bank account . He enters his
card into an ATM ( automated teller machine ) . The ATM machine prompts
" Enter PIN " . The customer enters his PIN The ATM ( internally
.
) retrieves the bank account number from the card The ATM
. encrypts the
PIN and
CS CamScanner



Page 1

the account number and sends it over to the bank . The bank verifies the Bachelor
encrypted Account and PIN number . If the PIN number is correct , the Level : Programme : BE
ATM displays " Enter amount " , draws money from the bank account and Object Ori
pays out the amount . Course : through U
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Object diagram 2
b ) Creator pattern Candidates are re
c ) UML multiple perspectives as practicable .
The figures in th
Attempt all the
1. a ) What is UN
process ?
b ) What is obj
software de
2. Case Study : Bar
CS CamScanner


Page 2

Verifies the POKHARA UNIVERSITY
er is correct
, the the bank : 2017
o account and Level : Bachelor Semester : Spring Year
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45 Design and Modeling
Time : 3hrs . Course : Object Oriented through UML
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
1. a ) What is UML ? How agile is applied to software development 7
process ?
b ) What is object oriented analysis and design ? Describe the most used 8
software development life cycle used nowadays ?
2. Case Study : Bank Transaction System :
Dank Transaction System
ok ! Display Balance
Cash PIN
Card number
Withdraw
Money
Inchid
Curlemel
Racord
Bank Castler Deposit
Record
Withdrawal
Deposit
Bank
Nemo Account
Numbar
Fig : use case of Bank
Transaction System 1
CS CamScanner


Page 3

On the basis of above Use case : system sequence diagram for Withdraw Money and Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Object Orie
a ) Develop the functions . Course : Through U
Deposit for any one of the system operations you identify .
b ) Write the contract Model used for ? How system behaviour can
3. a ) What is conceptual abstraction and Encapsulation ? Explain . Candidates are re
achieve data practicable .
4. a ) What does visibility controls in Object oriented programming ? The figures all the d
b ) When contracts are used ? Explain in context of an example by using as in the
the standard guidelines .
Describe different types of it with example . Attempt
b ) What are the roles of objects and patterns in OODM ? Describe the
different patterns used . 1. a ) Explain
5. a ) How domain model can be built from use case ? Illustrate the steps How is 1
used . behavio
b ) Explain b ) What are the important things to be handled during mapping design to code ? Illustrate with an example . 7 specify
6. a ) Why exception and error handling is important in OOAD ? Explain a ) What a
a ) Use Case Model ( Any two ) b ) What 2x !
7. Write short notes on : functionality ? betwe
. b ) What are descriptor classes in GRASP ? How does 7 2. record
it achieve singleton 8
b ) MVC Pattern conc syste
c ) Creating methods from collaboration 3. a ) Hov
diagram Stu



Page 4

TO Withdraw Money POKHARA UNIVERSITY
system operations you identify Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100 45
for ? How system behaviour Level : Bachelor Pass Marks :
culation ? Explain . Programme : BE Oriented Design and Modeling 3hrs . Time
context of an example Course : Object UML .
by using Object oriented Through required to give their answers in their own words as far
programming mple . tterns in OODM ? Describe Candidates are as practicable . The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
the use case ? Illustrate Attempt all the questions . abstraction with suitable examples ? the
the steps andled 1. a ) Explain data and behavioral responsibilities assigned to objects different from
during mapping How is the behavior that they exhibit ? performing requirements elicitation and 7
design ortant in OOAD b ) Explain the process of specifying those requirements using a visual modeling tool ? identifying and
? Explain How does it achieve use cases and how can they be used for differentiate
. a ) What are requirements ? How would you
singleton recording system between include and extend relationship between use cases ? between Domain
ram system making necessary 3. a ) How are system events identified ? 9
2 b concept elements ? Construct a domain model for a patient care
: 2018
) What are the different relationships that may exist
assumptions .
Student Attendance Monitoring System :
In case of a Student Attendance Monitoring System , the system
allows students to record their daily attendance through a Biometric
Finger scan device . The system records the daily attendance of
students and generates a report at the end of every month that shows
the late arrival details , number of absentees etc. The system allows
staff members to print the reports and configure the system as per
their need .
Identify the potential use cases for scenarios and elaborate them further
by coming up with individual sequence diagrams
for identifying the system events belonging to the individual scenario b ) How can iterations
. and conditional messages be shown Collaboration
using a diagram and a Sequence diagram ? 4. a ) Cheque Payment
: A customer presents
a cheque to the bank employee . checks if the cheque
The employee and the signature are valid and
that the
7
H J K L
CS CamScanner


Page 5

customer has enough amount of balance in the account . maximum amount of withdrawal allowed is 100000 per cheque case the Bachelor Object Oriented 38 : UML give their
The Design
unless the customer is a Privileged Customer in which customer can make a withdrawal of 500000 per cheque . Upon Through required to
successful verification , the system records the successful completion transaction and the cash is handed over to the customer . didates are indicate
of the modeling of the above scenario . practicable . margin
Perform domain i . sequence diagram for the events that occur in the the
ii . Draw the figures in questions .
scenario . the
b ) What is the difference between coupling and cohesion ? How can rather than the Aempt all to form
you make use of the Information Expert Pattern Controller pattern for delegating responsibilities to objects while necessary behavioura
designing a system ? Why is it data and difference b
5. a ) In the UML , how can error generated and exceptions thrown by 71 forming H
operations be illustrated in a Sequence diagram ? Explain with the Explain the elicitation ?
necessary figure . requirements static and dy
b ) ATM : 8 Differentiate concise
A customer having a Savings account in a Bank swipes a card in an ATM with a
machine and types in the PIN number using the keyboard of life cycle Online Food C
the ATM . The System checks if the PIN matches the card . If the Yummy Food Q
PIN does not match , the system rejects the card and display the b ) Online
rejection message in the ATM display . If the PIN is found to be a In case of an online . The sys
valid one , the customer types in the amount to be withdrawn . The order food report af
system checks if the customer has enough amount of balance in that account generates a notes
. If he does , the system debits the account and dispatches and system
cash thru the dispenser of the ATM and a receipt gets details . The discount a
printed and issued to the customer . and provides administrato
Come up with a design class diagram for the scenario then system mentio
above and map those classes to code in any programming the the above
language that supports Object Oriented Paradigm . 6. a ) What are For elaborate them identif
the artefacts created during the Object Oriented phase and for
Analysis of software development and how do those artefacts converted into concrete 8 diagrams
get design during the Object Oriented phase thru elaboration scenario . How do you
Design ? b ) Why should one expect and 3. a ) requirements
7. Write short notes on plan for change and deviation from the design even during programming ? Explain automate the with a d
: ( Any two ) . a ) Activity Diagrams 7 up assumption
b ) Iterative Process 2x5 Explain sy
c ) Local and Global b ) Visibility SSD
2
POKHARA UNIVER Semester : Spri
and Mo
CS CamScanner


Page 6

the Upon Semester : Spring Year : 2018 Full Marks : 100
completion · customer . Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Object Oriented Design and Modeling Pass Marks : 45 : 3hrs .
eve scenario , Course : Through UML far
the events that occur in the required to give their answers in their own words as
coupling and cohesion ? How can Expert Pattern rather than Candidates as practicable . margin indicate full marks .
the responsibilities to objects while The figures in the
generated and exceptions thrown by diagram ? Explain Why is it necessary to form abstractions ? Explain the process of examples ?
Sequence with the a ) forming data and behavioural abstraction with suitable 7 specification and
punt in a Bank swipes a card in an EN 8 b ) Explain requirements elicitation ? How are they performed ? 7 dynamic model , used in software development
number using the keyboard of the a ) Differentiate static and
PIN matches the card . If the life cycle with a concise diagram of each .
ejects the card and display the b ) Yummy Online Food Ordering : customer to
ay . If the PIN is found to be a In case of an Online Food Ordering System , the system allows
amount to be withdrawn . The food online . The system records the orders placed by the customers
ugh amount of balance in that order of every month that shows the order
ds the account and dispatches and generates a report at the end
d a receipt gets printed and details . The system notes the customers who place orders more frequently
for the scenario above and and provides discount as per the published discount scheme the system administrator to configure the system and print reports .
rogramming language that For the above mentioned scenario , come up with the potential use cases .
Object Oriented Analysis 8 and elaborate them further by coming up with individual sequence diagrams for identifying
w do those artefacts get the system events belonging to the individual
Object Oriented Design scenario . 3. a )
e and deviation from the with the Domain concept elements from the requirements specified by the customer ? Your college is wanting 7
7 to automate the manual tasks being
2 × 5 conducted in the Exam section , come up with a domain model for this scenario
POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Time
are
Attempt all the questions .
the difference between requirements
. It also allows
How do you come up
by making the necessary assumptions .
b ) Explain system response , event and operation . Explain the
purpose of SSD with an example . 4. a ) How do the artifacts
created during the Object Oriented Analysis 7
1
CS CamScanner


Page 7

P
phase of software development get design during the Object Oriented Design phase ? Explain with an example . Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Oriente
converted into concrete
b ) Differentiate between coupling and cohesion by drawing class diagrams of interconnected classes ? When would you rather make use Course : Object through UML
of the Information Expert Pattern than the Creator pattern for responsibility delegation to objects while designing an Object Candidates are requ
Oriented system ? diagrams with as practicable . the m
5. a ) Differentiate between sequence and communication regards to their strength and weakness . Draw a diagram for mutually The figures in
exclusive conditional path . Attempt all the que
b ) What is class diagram ? How class diagram can be drawn ? Explain step Unified Model
by step methodology along with the notations used to create them . a ) " visualizing , com
On the basis of given figure , convert it to code using a complete 6. a ) . Justi
source code . systems "
Shape + m\u00e1ln ( ) : v\u00f6ld Interface >>
FacadePatternDerno b ) What are the
OOA / D .
Dressed form
Circle 3 . creates Implement Rectangle -rectangle shape a ) Describe th with
Implements b ) ShapeMaker Explain the
+ draw ( ) : vold What is con 2. a )
How System
Square squares Shope Pattern
+ draw ] ) : void + drew ( ) : vold . + ShapeMaker ( ) How do yo
+ draw : void + drawardal vold b ) Interaction
-circle : Shape
drawfectangle vold
4drawSquare wold b ) Differentiate between responsibil
errors and exceptions . What features provided by the UML for 7. a
are modeling exception handling ? Write short notes on : ( Any 7 ) What is exclusive
two ) a ) Steps to create a domain 4 . a
model . b ) Visibility of objects 2x5 block ex
c ) Creating class definitions What d
from DCD's . b ) SSD f
CS CamScanner


Page 8

-te . POKHARA UNIVERSITY
wing class Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2019
" Ruses . " When than the Creator pattern for Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling Pass Marks : 45
would you rather mak use Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
Pattern while designing an Object through UML Time : 3hrs .

objects
and communication diagrams with diagram for Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
ness . Draw a mutually The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Eagram can be drawn ? Explain step Attempt all the questions .
otations used to create them .
= rt it to code using a complete a ) " Unified Modeling Language ( UML ) is a language for specifying , software 8
visualizing , constructing , and documenting the artifacts of UML in
systems " . Justify this statement explaining the significance of
OOA / D . Facade Patternberbo
b ) What are the various formats to represent a Use case ? Explain Fully- 2 + 5
+ main ( ) : vold Dressed format with an example .
asks 2. a ) How System Behaviour can be represented in UML ? 8
b ) What is conceptual Model ? How can one build a conceptual model ? 7 ShapeMaker
Explain the steps involved . creates circle : Shape
-rectangle : Shape 3. a ) Describe the significance of GRASP . Explain Information Expert 7
-square Shape Pattern with an example .
+ ShapeMaker b ) How do you denote mutually exclusive
+ drawardevold conditional paths in 8
+ drawfectangle vold Interaction Diagram ? What are the DO - ing and KNOW - ing
4drawsquare vold responsibilities of an object ?
s . What features are 7
andling ? 4 . a ) What is a collaboration diagram ? How do we represent mutually exclusive conditions in a collaboration 7
2x5 diagram ? Justify with a complete block example .
b ) What do What do you mean by system operation , events and behaviour ? Draw a SSD for makePayment ( ) function . 8
1
CS CamScanner


Page 9

b ) What do you mean by Exception in OOA fully dressed use Description :
5. a ) Convert the given Design Class Diagram into an equivalent language like Java , C ++ , etc ) el Tamme : Object Oriented UML
Orde Rectangle Square -square : Shape the terms OO
code . ( you : Bachelor 9 BE Desig
can choose any Course : through
Shape << interface >> Candidates practicable . the margin in
+ draw [ ] : void ShapeMaker The figures in the questions . )
Implements -circle : Shape Attempt all
creates Implement -rectangle Shape
+ draw ( ) : vold + draw void + draw ) > vold ShapeMaker ( ) + drawCircle ( ) vold Explain activities in each phase di
Facade Pattern Demo required to g
+ main ( ) : void are
asks s
+
+ drawRectangle ) : void an use case
+ drawSquare ( ) void Draw cas
/ D ? How are Exceptions addressed by UML ? 6 Use Case This
6. a ) How object oriented is used in their bank account type of account from w
SDLC ? b ) " Contracts in UML provides a list of possible
a more detailed description of system behavior when use cases 8 from amounts .
are insufficient " . Explain this statement an example . 7 of possible verification
with 7. Write short notes on : ( Any two system for dispenses the
) a ) System event and machine
b ) Visibility system operation illustrating un UML 2x5 dispensing of cash is
c ) High Cohesion and a ) Draw a use cas domain
Low Coupling b ) Draw a
POKHAR Seme
.
noun phrases c about
a ) Discuss What do you
b ) an exan
with cohesi
4 . a ) How the depende
b ) What contract . D
is Co
5 . a ) ed
Why desi
CS CamScanner


Page 10

eates -circle : Shape -rectangle The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
atent code POKHARA UNIVERSITY
. ( you
Facade PatternDemo Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45
+ main : Time : 3hrs . Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling UML
void through
asks Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
ShapeMaker as practicable .
: Shape -square : Attempt all the questions .
Shape
+ ShapeMaker ( ) with key
+ drawCircle ( ) : void a ) Explain the terms OOA and OOD . Elaborate your answer 7
+ drawRectangle activities in each phase .
( ) : vold + drawSquare (
) : void b ) Draw an use case diagram for a business of your choice and write 8
ow are Exceptions fully dressed use case by selecting most important use case .
option of system 8 from a list of possible accounts , and to choose a dollar amount from a list of possible amounts . The system sends the transaction to the financial 7
his statement with system for verification . If the financial system approves the transaction , the
ML 2x5 dispensing of cash is also recorded in the a ) Draw a use case diagram on the basis of above case study . 8
9 : 2019 Year
6 Use Case Description : Allows any bank customer to obtain cash from
their bank account . This use case begins when an ATM customer chooses a
type of account from which the cash is to be withdrawn ( e.g. checking ) .
machine dispenses the appropriate amount of cash and issues a receipt . The
ATM's log .
b ) Draw a domain model of the above use case by choosing the noun and case diagram . 7
noun phrases of your use
Discuss about the different methods for identifying conceptual classes . a ) 7
b ) What do you understand by the term association ? Explain multiplicity 8
with an example . cohesion and coupling affects the object
a ) How pattern . Describe using dependency diagram . 8
b ) What is Contract ppost conditions are essential for drawing a contract Describe it using a suitable use condition 7
i . a ) Why design considered as important artifacts in object oriented design ? Explain the use of Creator 8
b ) What use of attribute and parameter 7
the ? Pre and
. case
. patterns
are
and Information Expert
pattorns . is visibility ? Describe the
1
CS CamScanner


Page 11

visibility among classes while designing class diagram . errors and exceptions can be handled during Mapping codes to Bachelor
6. a ) How design ? Elaborate using a simple code snippets using any Object Level : Programme : BE
oriented programming language of your choice . the diagram into code using any of the object oriented Course : Object O through
b ) Convert
languages ( C ++ , Java etc. )
implements Attempt all the
Shape FacadePatternDemo Candidates are practicable .
* draw ( ) : void + main ( ) : void as The figures in t
implement ShapeMaker O0
Circle Rectangle Square -circle : How does
creates Shape -rectangle Shape example .
+ draw ( ) : vold + drow ( ) : void + draw -square Shape ) Explain differ
( ) : vold
7. Write short notes on b ) Explain the
: ( Any two ) a ) Unified conceptual c
Process b ) Sequence with a scena
versus collaboration diagram c ) Mapping 2x a ) What is the
design to codes steps you construc
asks
+ ShapeMaker ( )
+ drawCirde ( ) : void What do you
+ drawRectangle ( ) : void
+ drawSquare ) : void management
b ) How does c
name and m
Case Study : C
At the begin
containing
about each included
be to
students se
coming choices in
offerings couise
A regist
the se
system
CS CamScanner


Page 12

Mapping codes to POKHARA UNIVERSITY 2020
pers using any Object Semester : Fall Year :
evel : Bachelor Full Marks : 100
easing any of the object oriented Programme Pass Marks : Time Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling : 3hrs .
Gates -crde : Shape -rectangle How does OOD differ from OOA example .
rede attemDems give their answers in their own words as far
-main : wo as practicable . indicate full marks .
asks The figures Attempt all the questions .
ShapeMaker ? Explain the key OOA activities with 7
Shape -square : Shape Rational Unified Process . 8
+ ShapeMaker ( ) Explain different phases and disciplines library 8
+ drawOrde : void do you mean by UML ? Draw a use - case diagram for a
+ drewRectangle ( ) What issue - book " .
: void -drawSquare management system and write fully dressed use case for "
: ad
: BE 45
through UML
Candidates are required to
in the margin
of
Explain the importance of object - oriented analysis , in identifying and other elements and to construct a domain model , 7
conceptual classes
with a scenario .
2 > What is the role of Domain Model in developing a software ? How can 7
you construct a domain model ?
b ) How does classes are linked to one another ? Discuss association with its 8
name and multiplicity with examples .
Case Study : Course Registration System
At the beginning of each semester students may request a course catalog containing
a list of each course offerings for the semester . Information about each course
, such as professor , department , and prerequisites will be included to help students
for prompt decisions . The system will allow students to select four courses
that are going to be offered for the semester In addition each student will
coming . , indicate two alte mative choices in case a course offering becomes filled or canceled
. No course offerings will have more than ten students fewer
or than three students
. offering with fewer than three students will be
A course canceled . Once registration process is completed for
the a student , the registration sends information to the billing system
system so the student can be billed for the semester . Professors must be able to
access the online indicate which courses they will be teaching
system to , and to see which 1
CS CamScanner


Page 13

6 . a ) How can we make our system tempt all the questions .
students signed up for their course offerings . diagram . 1
a ) Considering above scenario , draw the collaboration the class 7 8
b ) Identify the classes , assume the necessary attributes and draw Bachelor
diagram . BE
5. a ) What is visibility in OOP Language ? Describe its role in obtaining high 8 : Object Oriented Design and N
abstraction . What are the various types of them ? Elaborate using
diagram and code snippets for the private visibility . required to answer in
b ) Why do we need design pattems ? Explain the use of low coupling and aidates are 7 vers with a valid set of UML diag
high cohesion pattems .
7 . necessary steps to convert design to code with example . Write short notes on : ( Any two QN.1 Discuss the emergence Support your answer w
a ) Elaborating use case 2 × 50N.2 Differentiate the stru usin
b ) Representation of system behavior Q.N.3 understanding by Consider a business
c ) Mapping design to code standard practices to
b ) Ultimately diagrams are not executable , so we need to convert them
into code . Explain 8
)
more robust ? Discuss the use of exception handling in 7
OOA and OOD .
Q.N.4 Differentiate sequen are its
Q. N. 5 Convert the diagra
the domain model .
used and what
What is visibility in What are the variou
Java etc. )
CS CamScanner


Page 14

m .
and draw
the class
= in obtaining POKHARA UNIVERSITY
high Elaborate using el : Bachelor RIM : BE Semester Spring Full Marks 70 Marks 31.5
w coupling Time : 2 hrs . practicable .
and are required to answer in their own words as far as s with a valid set of LML diagrams indicate full marks .
Es the
use of 7 empt all the questions .
vert them into Group A : ( 5x10 = 50 )
n example . 8 N. 1 Discuss the emergence of OOA and OOD phases in addition to the existing OOP . 10
Year : 2020
Pass : Object Oriented Design and Modeling through UML
2x N.2 understanding by using appropriate artifacts for both . Differentiate the structural and behavioral analysis process . Elaborate your 10
Support your answer with key activities in each phase chronologically .
QN 3 Consider a business of your choice and develop a domain model . Follow the attributes associations to develop 10
standard practices to find conceptual classes , and
the domain model .
QN . 4 10 Differentiate sequence diagram with collaboration diagram . Why Contracts are
used and what are its format ?
OR
What is visibility in OOAD ? Describe its role in obtaining high abstraction .
What are the various types of them ? Elaborate using diagram and code snippets .
Q.N.5 Convert the diagram into code using any of the object oriented languages ( C ++ ,
Java etc. ) 10
All
- creates oice : Shape
Square rectangle Shape Shaq
FacadePattern De
mang tres
drawdo
CS CamScanner


Page 15

Q. N. 6 Case Study outbreak many sectors have been seriously affected . Face
L
P
Group B : ( 1 × 20 = 20 )
Due to COVID - 19 mandatory in public places because it is a respiratory sensitive disease .
masks are A reputed hospital in Kathmandu wants to hire a software development team to
develop a smart face mask detection system .
The system needs to be connected with several cameras for detecting human faces anyone face mask . The admin can add
to make sure whether there is without a
different wards with details including a supervisor and rooms with cameras in each
ward . The supervisor can monitor own ward with a dashboard showing the total number
of faces with mask and without masks . Additionally , there is a smart
entrance gate that will block the people without a face mask .
Consider yourself as a team lead of the software development team . Illustrate understanding a )
your about the context by developing and finalizing the
following artifacts .
Use Case Diagram , Sequence Diagram , Class Diagram , Communication Diagram
. b )
20
2 . a
3 .
H
CS CamScanner


Page 16

aloud Fac
faces as practicable . The figures the
add in margin indicate full marks .
I showing the too Attempt all the questions .
here is a sm
flustrate your a ) How is the Unified Process different than other traditional processes like with regard to the distinctive features of 8
following waterfall model ? Discuss
Communication b ) " UML is a language for specializing , visualizing , constructing and 7
Level : Bachelor POKHARA Semester : Fall Year : 2021 Full Marks : 100
Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45
UNIVERSITY
Course : Object Oriented Design and Modelling Time : 3hrs .
through UML
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
Unified Process .
documenting the artifacts of the system . " Justify this statement
explaining the significance of UML in OO/AD.
a ) What are use cases and how the can be used for identifying and between 8
recording system requirement ? How would you differentiate
include and extend relationship between use cases .
b ) Why do we need Conceptual Classes ? Discuss with an example . 7
a ) " Contracts in UML provides a more detailed description of system 5
behavior when use cases are not sufficient " . Explain this statement with
an example .
b ) LEAVE APPLICATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM : 10
SYSTEM MODULES
Register :
One user has to register on this interface with its actual data to be filled and applied
in the same interface , then pressed enter to be saved
in the database . Further move to log in
, . Login :
The user inputs its secure user id and password and enters system
the . User can login multiple times as many times he
wants Leave apply :
Here is the module for applying for leave
to the interface . One has to enter his details about the leave
like reason of the leave
.
CS CamScanner


Page 17

Choose the dates of the leave policy of the company or premise the cost interface . Level Programme Course : Object through
. Depending upon the of the leave : :
user's Bachelor BE
account and calculated and shown to the is will
is review : application of the leave application he
Live After successful admin . According to his need ,
come under scrutiny done by an will review it and take necessary action in next module . Candidates a
Leave approval : admin approves the leave or not is reflected by admin shown to the practicab
Here users . Here all the real - time updates will be as The figures
to the Users can see only their own leave request there . Attempt all
users .
Log out : , the user can log out the system to release the
In the end the purpose of anything else . How do
resources held for the use case diagram for 1. a ) activitie
Identify the use cases and draw i . What a
the system b )
ii . Draw SSD for the scenario of leave application . record
4. a ) Discuss the importance of using Patterns in OOD . Provide an example 8 includ
scenario for applying high cohesion pattern . Wha
b ) Why are interaction diagram developed during OOD ? Differentiate 7 2. a ) Ex
between Sequence and Collaboration diagrams .
5. A hospital's ICU department uses various devices during the treatment of 15 b ) W
patients . Each patient is monitored to measures factors such as temperature , CO
heart rate , and blood pressure . The device regularly reads the values and record them . For a ) W
each patient , medical staff also specifies safe ranges for each factor . If a factor 3 .
falls outside a patient's safe range , or if a device fails , the nurses ' station b)
is notified .
Develop a Domain model , Sequence diagrams and Class diagram from these details
.
6. a ) Explain with an example , how class diagram can be used 4 . a )
to generate code . 7 b )
a ) Visibility on : ( Any two ) 2 × 5
7. Write short notes are exceptions and errors ? Explain the ways for handling them . 8 5 .
b ) Test - First Programming
c ) . Identifying Conceptual classes
b ) What
2
CS CamScanner


Page 18

POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2021
Semester : Spring Year Full Marks : 100 Level : Bachelor 45
plication is will to his need Programme : BE Design and Modeling Pass Marks : : 3hrs .
ling , he module . Course : Object Oriented Time
reflected by admin
e shown to the give their answers in their own words as far
there . Candidates are required to
tem to release the The figures in the margin indicate full marks . Attempt all the questions
through UML
as practicable .
.
1. a ) How does OOA differ from OOD ? Elaborate your answer with key 7 e diagram for
activities in each phase . tion .
b ) What are use cases and how they can be used for identifying and 8
recording system requirements ? How would you differentiate between ovide an example 8
include and extend relationship between use cases ?
D ? Differentiate 7 2. a ) What are different strategies for identifying conceptual classes ? 8
Explain with examples .
the treatment of 11 b ) What is an operation contract ? Is it essential to develop an operation 7
as temperature , contract for each and every system operations ? Explain .
the values and 3. a ) What is visibility ? Describe the use of attribute and parameter visibility 8
safe ranges for among classes while designing class diagrams .
if a device fails , b ) Discuss the necessity of interaction diagram during software design .
7 How is conditional messages and mutually exclusive conditional paths
gram from these illustrated in interaction diagrams ? Explain .
sed to generate 7 8 7 4. a ) Explain different types of relationship used b ) " UML is a language for specializing , visualizing , constructing and
andling them . 8 P documenting the artifacts of the system . " Justify this statement explaining the significance of UML in OOA / D .
2 × 5 7 5. a ) What is the significance of studying exception and error handling in
in class diagram .
objects oriented analysis and design ? Explain briefly about exception technique .
handling process of mapping design to code ( both class definition and
b ) Explain the method definition ) with example . Support your answer by using a design 8
class diagram and collaboration diagram .
1
CS CamScanner
Hy Alt



Page 1

6. Online Learning platforms help students to search for criteria . If the system shows a suitable course then the students registers for courses as per their 15 the course and paying for it . Interaction with teacher can be done by registered students . Students need to attend the class and submit their assignments regularly . Students who attended 80 % of the classes and submitted all their assignment are awarded with a course completion certificate at the end of the course . Also , the system facilitates the students to cancel their registration and refund the payment if it is done within a week .
Now draw a use case model ( no description required ) , Domain model , interaction diagrams and design class diagram from these information .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Functional Vs. Non - Functional Requirements 2x5
b ) Coupling and cohesion
c ) Reverse Engineering


Page 2

POKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester : Fall IS Year : 2022 Full Marks : 100
Course : Object Oriented Design and Modeling subinit their he classes and Time
by Level : Bachelor Programme Pass Marks : 45 3hrs .
se completion students through UML their...


Page 3

8 What is visibility ? Describe the use of attribute and parameter visibility Level : Bach
5. a ) among classes while designing class diagrams . Programme
b ) Draw system sequence diagram for enterItem in POS . Explain system . events and system operation . 7 Course : Ob th
7 6. 2 ) What is the significance of studying exception and error handling in
objects oriented analysis and design ? Explain briefly about exception Candidate
handling technique . practic
b ) Explain the process of mapping design to code ( both class definition as figur
and method definition ) with example . Support your answer 8 The
by using a design class diagram and collaboration diagram . Attempt
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Functional Vs. Non - Functional Requirements 2x5 a ) Expla
b ) Operation contract Orien
c ) Representation of system behavior b ) Why
disc
2. a ) Dise
3 . a ) W
dur
b ) Wh
ex
do
b ) " T
a
4 . Cas
а
Onl
mo
CS CamScanner
the
av
pr
d


Page 4

S Explain system Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Semester Full Marks Pass Marka : 45
and error handling in Course : Object Oriented through UML Time far
ely about exception to give their answers in their own words as
code ( both class Candidates are required as practicable .
pport your answer 00 The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
gram . Attempt all the questions . and Object- 7
2 × 5 a ) Explain the difference between Object - Oriented and
POKHARA UNIVERSITY Spring Year : 100
Design and Modeling
Analysis
Oriented Design with an example . is use case description important ? Provide an example ४
b ) Why discuss about the important section of a use case description . role 8
2. a ) Discuss about the different phases of unified process development .
and their
during software Explain different parts of contract with suitable 7
b ) What is a contract ?
example . a conceptual model ? How is a 7
3. a ) What is the purpose of developing model represented ? Discuss its components .
domain
b ) " Designers make a bridge between customer requirements and the 8
actual working code " , Justify this statement using major sets of design
artifacts .
4. Case Study 15
Online Medical Store system allows us access their system with a valid
mobile number . We can search for medicines in their systems by providing
the doctor's prescription list . The prescription list is compared and a list
of available medicines is displayed to us . Then we select
the medicines and proceed to checkout and make payment
. We also indicate the address for delivery . The system displays
the expected delivery date . After that , a SMS with the delivery details
is sent to our mobile number . Also facilitates the customers
, the system to cancel their order 1 week no cancellation
before delivery with charge . After 1 week no cancellation Draw a use
can be made . case model , Domain model , collaboration class diagram from
diagrams and design these information .
CS CamScanner


Page 5

5. a ) Discuss the scope and visibility of objects . Elaborate the use of local visibility in details
parameter visibility and coupling affect a good design ? Explain with 8
b ) How , cohesion and
suitable points .
7
6. a ) Explain about Fault , error and failure with relevant examples . Discuss 8
the steps to handle exception in object oriented programming .
b ) Designs are for programmers not for end users . Show how different 7
design diagrams help programmers for writing code .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2 × 5
a ) Conceptual class category list
b ) Collection Classes
c ) Information expert
+
CS CamScanner


Page 6

With Level : Bachelor Modelling through Pass Marks Time : 3hrs .
amples . Discuss Programme : BE Course : Object Oriented Design and words as far
ming UML answers in their own
how different are required to give their
2x5 The figures in the margin indicate full questions .
POKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester : Fall Year Full Marks : 100 : 45
: 2023
Candidates practicable . marks .
as
Attempt all the Oriented Analysis and Object- 7
1. a ) relationship Explain the difference between Design with an example . 8
b ) What is Use case diagram ? Explain . Draw Use Case Diagram for Online Hotel Reservation
include and extends Oriented
with example
System . contract ? Explain different parts of contract with suitable 8
Object -
2. a ) What is a
example . conceptual model ? How is a 7
b ) What is the purpose of developing a model represented ? Discuss its components .
domain
3. a ) What is the purpose of using system sequence diagram ? Explain it 8
with suitable example .
b ) What is class diagram and why they are important in designing the 7
software system ? How are classes linked to each other ? Show with
different relationship used in class diagram with examples .
8 a ) What is GRASP and list out all the patterns also provide the reason why design patterns are used
4.
in object oriented design ? Explain the use of low coupling and high
cohesion . b ) Discuss the scope
and visibility of objects . Elaborate the parameter
use of visibility and local visibility in details 7 Explain
5. a ) the overall process
of Object - Oriented Software Development ( analysis
8 , design and modelling , implementation b ) Explain the process
) . of mapping design to code ( and method definition
both class definition ) with example . 7 6. Differentiate
a ) error and exceptions
. How are exceptions UML diagram ? Explain .
handled in 7
Page 1 of 2
CS CamScanner


Page 7

b ) Why is it important to list the requirements before making the actual 8
design ? Explain with the help of Library Management System .
2x5 7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Unified process
b ) Sequence vs Collaboration diagram
c ) Creating methods from collaboration diagram
CS CamScanner


