Page 1

6. a ) Explain the importance of hidden surface removal in computer graphics . What are the drawbacks of z - buffer method and how it 7
is corrected in A - buffer ?
b ) Explain how machine independent graphical language are more 8
preferable to develop graphical project .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5
a ) Open GL
b ) Beizer curve
c ) Polygon Table
CS CamScanner


Page 2

2 × 5
POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2021
or Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100
Programme : BE Course Pass Marks : 45
: Computer Graphics Time : 3 hrs .
Year
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable
.
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
1. a ) Compare and contrast the Raster and Random system with the 7
necessary diagram .
b ) Define resolution and persistence . Explain the digital to analog 8
converter in frame buffer organization ? )
2 . a Write Bresenhams line drawing algorithm along with necessary 8
derivation for positive slope less than 1 i.e. Im < 1.Trace the algorithm
for the line with end points A ( 6,12 ) and B ( 10,15 ) .
7 b ) Explain the Sutherland Hodgeman polygon clipping algorithm
considering the four different cases .
OR
Let R be the rectangular window whose lower left hand corner is at L
( -3 , 1 ) and upper right - hand corner is at R ( 2 , 6 ) . Use Cohen -
Sutherland algorithm to clip the line segments A ( -4 , 2 ) and B ( -1 , 7 ) .
3. a ) Derive a composite transformation matrix for reflecting an object 7
about a line y = x + 4 in 2D
b ) Differentiate between window and viewport . Derive a matrix for 8
window to viewport transformation .
4. a ) What do you mean by a projection ? Derive an expression to obtain the 7
perspective projection of any arbitrary point .
b ) Why filling algorithm is required in computer graphics ? Explain about 8
scan line polygon filling algorithm .
8 5. a ) What are the different ways of representing 3D objects in computer
Graphics ? Explain how can you represent a polygon surface as a 3D-
object . surfaces , in case of 3D viewing ?
b ) Why is it necessary to detect visible removal 7
Explain Z - buffer Algorithm for hidden surface . Describe how Gouraud Shading algorithm can be used in rendering a 6. a ) 7
realistic 3D object .
Why do we need the machine independent graphical languages ? List 8
out some of the graphical file formats and explain them in short .
CS CamScanner


Page 3

7 . Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Diffuse us specular Reflection 2x5
b ) Color models
c ) Application of computer graphics
CS CamScanner


Page 4

Level : Bachelor POKHARA Semester : Fall Year : 2022 Marks : 100
UNIVERSITY
Programme : BE Full Pass Marks : 45
Course : Computer Graphics Time : 3hrs .
1. a ) Define Computer Graphics ? Explain the applications of CG in Scientific Visualization and CAD .
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
Computer Simulation , raster scan system
b ) Define Refresh rate and Resolution . Consider a screen with a resolution of 300 pixels per
having 20 - inch by 30 - inch each direction . If the display controller of the system refreshes
inch in at rate of 60 frames per second , how many pixels could be
the screen a accessed per second and what is the access time per pixels of the
system .
2. a ) Define CRT ? Explain with neat diagram about the working principle 7
of shadow mask method ?
7
b ) Consider a line from ( 2,1 ) to ( 8,3 ) using DDA algorithm to rasterize a 8
line .
3. a ) Explain the boundary fill algorithm in detail . How this approach differs 8
from flood fill ?
b ) Prove that : 7
i . Two successive Translations are Additive
ii . Two successive Scaling are Multiplicative
4. a ) Window port is given by ( 100,100,300,300 ) and viewport is given by 7
( 50,50,150,150 ) . Convert the window port coordinate ( 200,200 ) to the
viewport coordinate .
b ) A mirror is placed vertically such that it passes through
the points ( 5 , 0 ) and ( 0 , 5 ) . Find the reflected view of triangle ABC with 8
coordinates A ( 5 , 30 ) , B ( 30 , 50 ) and C ( 20 , 60 ) .
5. a ) How do you represent 3D objects by using Polygon consistency
Tables ? How is the of geometric data table checked and what are generating 7
the rules for error free polygon tables ?
1
ASD F G H
CS CamScanner


Page 5

5 . 2 ) Derive the equation for cubic Bezier curve and find the coordinate at 8 00
b ) What is OpenGL ? Why GLUT is implemented in OpenGL Explain 8
Callback function .
= 0.2 with respect to the control points ( 1 , 1 ) , ( 4 , 6 ) ( 8 , -3 ) and ( 12 , 2 ) .
b ) Why depth sorting method is called Painter's Algorithm ? Explain scan
line method for visible surface detection with an example . 7
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5
a ) Light pen
b ) Color models
c ) Phone shading
CS CamScanner


Page 6

explain coordinate UNIVERSITY Year : 2023 100
at 3 ) and ( 12 , 2 ) . Algorithm ? Explain POKHARA Semester : Spring Level : Bachelor Full Marks Pass Marks : 45 : 3hrs .
scan example . Programme : BE Course : Computer Graphics Time own words as far
2x5 Candidates are as practicable . required to give full marks .
1. a ) Define computer graphics with its graphics technology impacted the gaming industry in terms
2. a ) How much time is spent scanning across each on a raster system with a resolution of 1280 by 1024
b ) Graphical systems are composed Why ? Explain the working principle of Data gloves with
:
their answers in their
The figures in the margin indicate
Attempt all the questions . has the evolution of 8
type . How
computer of realism and player immersion ? DAC and Frame Buffer 7
of
organization . example .
row of pixels during 7
screen refresh refresh rate of 60 frames per second ?
and a point symmetry ? Explain the
b ) Why Circle and Ellipse uses different circle generation algorithm by calculating its initial decision 00 8
mid - point
parameter .
3. a ) What is uniform scaling ? Reflect an object ( 2 , 3 ) , ( 4 , 3 ) , ( 4 , 5 ) about 8
line y = x + 1 .
b ) How is Scan line algorithm different from Flood fill algorithm for 7
filling polygons ? Explain .
4. a ) What do you understand by the term clipping ? Explain the Cohen- 8
Sutherland line clipping algorithm with suitable example .
b ) Why we need the machine independent graphical language ? Explain
two different graphical software standards . 7
5. a ) Define blobby objects with example . What is cubic
Bezier curve ? Derive the equation of Cubic Bezier curve . 8
b ) Why is it required to detect visible surfaces
in 3D viewing and not in 2D ? How is Back face detection approach
different from Z Buffer approach for detecting visible surfaces ? 7
1
WER T оp
S DF G H J
K L
CS CamScanner


Page 7

6. a ) Explain the 3D viewing pipeline . Briefly explain the significance of 8
World coordinate system , Viewing coordinate system , Normalized
viewing coordinate system and Device coordinate system in the Bachelor
viewing pipeline . Level : Programme : BE
b ) What is illumination model ? Differentiate between Phong Shading and Computer G
Gouraud Shading . 7 Course :
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Specular Reflection 2x5 Candidates ar
b ) Parallel vs. Perspective Projection as practicable
c ) Area Subdivision Method The figures in
1. a ) Differenti architectu
Attempt all th
b ) How is F inch b
14
direction
video co
2. a ) Define princip
Consid
b ) Expla betwe
3. a ) Find ( 10
rasteri
C Win
b ) Suth
4 . a ) Dif exa
b ) Ho su
VI
5. a )
T
CS CamScanner


Page 8

the
ding and POKHARA UNIVERSITY Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Your : 2023
7 Programme : BE Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45
2x5 Course : Computer Graphics ( Old ) Time : 3hrs . answers in their own words as far
1. a ) Differentiate between raster scan and vector scan system with its architectural 7
b ) How is Resolution different from Aspect ratio ? A raster scan system has resolution of 220 pixels per inch in each 8
2. a ) Define Emissive and Non - Emissive Display . Explain the working 7
Candidates are required to give their as practicable
.
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
diagram .
14 inch by 10 inch screen with a per pixel of the screen if the
direction . What would be the access time frames per second ?
video controller refreshes the screen at a rate of 65
principle of LCD display .
OR
Consider a line from ( 5 , 5 ) to ( 13 , 9 ) . Use Bresenham's algorithm to
rasterize the line .
b ) Explain flood fill algorithm using four connected method . Differentiate 8
3. a ) Find the final coordinates of a triangle with vertices A ( 5,8 ) B ( 15,8 ) 8
b ) 7 Window is defined as ( 20,20 ) , ( 90,20 ) , ( 90,70 ) , ( 20,80 ) .Use Cohen
4. a ) T Differentiate between Parallel and perspective projection with an
b ) 8 How is ISM approach different from OSM approach for detecting visible surfaces
5. a ) The 3D viewing process is more complex than 2D viewing process . Why 7
6 . a ) Beizer curve . Why do programs that use OpenGL can be run on multiple hardware platforms ? Explain 007 8
b ) What is cubic Beizer curve ? Derive the equation of cubic
b ) Explain the color models with its geometrical representation and their relationship .
between boundary and flood fill algorithm ..
C ( 10,16 ) after reflecting it about line y = -2x - 2 .
Sutherland line clipping algorithm to clip the line P ( 10,30 ) Q ( 80,90 ) .
example .
? How does Backface detection algorithm work for detecting
visible surfaces ?
? How the mismatch between 3D and 2D is compensated . Explain
the steps with its appropriate figure .
the basic OpenGL API that are used for rendering graphical objects .
8
Page 1 of 2
YU I ERTY U
CS CamScanner


Page 9

7 . Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5
a ) PHIGS
b ) Data Gloves
c ) Diffuse Reflection
CS CamScanner


Page 10

2 * 5 UNIVERSITY
Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45 : 3hrs . Object Oriented Design and Modelling
Level : Bachelor Semester - Full Full Marks : 100
POKHARA : 2012
Year
Time Course :
through UML
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable .
as indicate full marks .
The figures in the margin
Attempt all the questions .
What are various notations provided by the UML for capturing the static and dynamic aspects of a software system ? Explain with figures .
Explain how the change in requirements is handled on an iterative g development . List out the advantage of an iterative and incremental
process of software development over waterfall development process .
What is the basic procedure to find out the use cases ? List benefits of 5
writing use cases during software development process ?
Explain when the changes occur in mapping design to code . 5
7
How do we assign responsibilities to objects ? Explain with a suitable 5
example .
a ) What is the significance of using interaction diagram Compare
What are various relationships that might exist between different domain 8
elements ? Explain using a Patient billing system as an
example .
What are the important contents of a Post condition of an operation
contract ? How is mapping of these operation contracts done during 7
Object Oriented design phase ?
OR Define
role of multiplicity and non primitive types with
suitable examples . 7
during design ? and contrast system sequence diagram and collaboration diagram in terms of 8
its weakness and strength . b ) When is it
desirable to use Controller pattern instead of using Information expert pattern when assigning
responsibility to objects ? What are the conditions for preparing a ) 7
a contract ? Does
writing 1 7
H J K L
CS CamScanner


Page 11

contracts leads to domain model updates , defend your answer expect and plan for change and deviation from Bachelor BE Oriented Design.
b ) Why is it desirable to the design even during programming phase ? Explain Object the
6. Case Study : Online Hotel Reservation System register his / her personal ugh UML required to give
When making a reservation a customer must information . To speed up the process details of previous customers will be dates are indicate
stored and made available later . By this system the customer can make reservation and cancel it . When making a reservation the customer can the margin practicable .
choose the number of rooms , the type of room , services ( laundry , meal , transportation etc figures in the questions .
) . The reservation is confirmed when customer pay 10 % of the total charges . After the mpt all
reservation , the customer will get an e - mail of the details of the reservation between state
. Differentiate
Within a hotel there is a reservation administrator who is responsible for controlling diagram and
reservations at the hotel . He is also responsible for processing no - shows ( When the component
reservation at the hotel doesn't show up at reserved date ) and makes a reservation Examples . importance d
for a customer . Now Describe the
answer the following questions : briefly all the ph
a ) Identify all the use cases and actors and describe How
draw a use case diagram . Also write all the course of events for one Define Use Cases .
use case . b ) Draw class diagram explain with an
for the above scenario . 7. Write process
short notes on any two : Describe the importan
a ) Visibility detail for at least one
b ) Relationship between GRASP 2 4
and UML c ) High cohesion and your own . acti
low coupling What are the
POKHARA UNIV Semester :
and N
process ? How can p "
be identified ?
" Well designed in
analysis and des
exclusive condit
a ) Show with an e
a Collaboration
b ) What is the di
How does ma
responsibilit
a ) How cohe
suitable ex
the
CS CamScanner


