Page 1

POKHARA UNIVERSITY CamScanner
evel : Bachelor rogramme : BE ⚫ Semester : Spring Year : 2012 Full Marks : 100
Course : Computer Graphics Pass Marks : 45 Time : 3hrs .
Candidates practicable . are required to give their answers in their own words as far
as figures in the margin indicate full marks
The .
Attempt all the questions .
Explain the need and use of graphics in the field of IT . 7
What is Video Controller ? Explain the basic video - controller refresh 8
operations with proper block diagram .
1 Enlist different types of input devices . Describe touch panel as an 7
input device . DO 8
Derive the Bresenham's line algorithm for | m | > 1 .
OR
Clip the line PIP2 with PI ( 0,120 ) and P2 ( 130,5 ) using Cohen-
Sutherland Line Algorithm . Given that rectangular window ABCD
has end - points A ( 10,100 ) , B ( 150,100 ) , C ( 150,10 ) and ( 10,10 ) .
a ) Digitize a standard form circle using midpoint algorithm having radius 7
of 10 unit .
b ) Explain transformation of 2D object to screen viewing with matrix 8
derivation .
OR
Calculate viewing transformation matrix with given information :
given triangle with sides A ( 5,5 ) B ( 15,5 ) C ( 10,10 ) , given window
coordinate ( 7,4 ) ( 13,4 ) ( 13,8 ) , ( 7,8 ) and view port location is
( 17,7 ) ( 18,8 ) ( 17,8 ) ?
a ) Scale the triangle with vertices A ( 0 , 0 ) , B ( 1 , 1 ) , C ( 5 , 2 ) to half its 8
size while keeping B ( 1 , 1 ) fixed . b )
Briefly explain the different graphics file format . a ) What do you mean by projection ? Differentiate between parallel and 7
perspective projection .
7
CS


Page 2

b ) Write down the Drawbacks of Backface Detection . Explain Z - buffer Bachelor
Algortim . Level : : BE Grap !
6. a ) Explain Gouraud shading method . How is it different from Phong Programme Computer
shading method ? Course :
h ) Explain the things to be considered while developing a project .
7 . Write short notes on : ( Any iwo ) require
a ) Differentiate between Raster - Scan and Random - Scan system Candidates are
. b ) Explain different file formats . practicable .
c ) Polygon Table . as The figures in the mar
PO
Attempt all the questi
Define Computer
computer graphics . resolution <
Define
scan display and v
2 ) Consider two rast
by 1024. How m
these systems by
of 60 frames pe
vstem ?
scribe how c
the trian
equa
CS
CamScanner


Page 3

Detection . Explain POKHARA Year Full Marks : 100 Semester : Fall : 2013\nZ - buffer is Pass Marks : 45\nng method different from Phong Level : Bachelor : BE Graphics Time : 3hrs .\n. How it\nnsidered while developing a project Programme Course : Computer words far\n. , answers in their own as\n--Scan and Random - Scan system required to give their\n. Candidates are\nUNIVERSITY\nas practicable figures in the margin indicate full marks\n. .\nThe the questions .\nAttempt all major application areas of 8\n) Define Computer graphics . Discuss the computer graphics . raster\n> ) Define resolution & persistence . What is the difference between display and vector scan display ?\nscan raster systems with resolutions of 640 by 840 and 1280 8\n7\n:) Consider two pixels could be accessed per second in each of\nby 1024. How many refreshes the screen at a rate\nthese systems by a display controller that\nof 60 frames per second ? What is the access time per pixel in each\nsystem ?\nb ) Describe how color pixel is displayed in a computer system ? -7\n2 ) Rotate the triangle A ( 2,3 ) , B ( 5,3 ) and C ( 3,1 ) about a fixed point by 8\n30 xb0\nb ) Derive an equation for calculating points of a circle using mid - point 7\nalgorithm .\nOR\nWrite a Code for drawing a full circle points .\na ) Explain the 2D viewing pipeline along with the derivation for the\nwindow to viewport transformation .. 7\nb ) Why we need machine independent graphical language\n? Explain briefly about any two of the graphical file 8\nformats . 5 . a ) What is meant by surface rendering\n? Explain the Gouraud Shading method for surface rendering 7\n. b ) What is projection\n? Derive the expression and matrix representation for perspective\nprojection . 8\n1\n20\nCaps A\nCS CamScanner


Page 4

6. a ) Write Z - buffer algorithm for detecting visible surface with its drawback & remedy . el : Bachelor gramme : BE Computer Gr
b ) What is the significance of making plans for a project ? What things should be considered during the project development ? se :
Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 7 . 2 >
a ) Touch screen . are req
c ) 3D Viewing Pipeline . practicable . the
b ) Homogeneous Co - ordinates . didates
e figures in the qu
Attempt all
What are com
them with dia
On an averag
the frame bu
System . If
access rate
Explain th
While sca
reached t
with a ex
a ) Digitize
Bresenh
b ) Differe
transfo
a ) What
opera
b ) Scale
CS CamScanner
orig
P


Page 5

6 . surface rendering . a ) What do you mean by hidden
Course .CS Pass Marks : 45 Time : 3hrs .
POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Semester : Spring Year : 2013 Full Marks : 100
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable .
as
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
What are components that computer graphics consists of ? Explain 8
them with diagram .
On an average it takes 200 nano second to access a pixel value from 7
the frame buffer and glow a phosphor dot on the screen for a Raster
System . If total resolution of the screen is 1024 x 1024 , will this
access rate create a flickering effect on the screen ? Illustrate
2 ) Explain the architecture of raster display with a neat block diagram . we have 8
b ) While scan converting an ellipse , how do we know that 7
reached the second region of the first quadrant of the Ellipse ? Explain
with a expressions .
a ) Digitize a line with end points A ( 2,10 ) and B ( 5,18 ) using 8
Bresenham's Line drawing algorithm .
b ) Differentiate between window port and view port . Derive the 7
transformation matrix for window to view transformation . port
a ) What is the significance of Clipping operation ? Explain the Clipping 8
operation used for clipping lines in 2D .
b ) Scale a triangle A ( 0,0 ) , B ( 1,1 ) , C ( 3,2 ) by twice its original size , about 7
origin and about point P ( -1 , -2 ) .
a ) What do you mean by projection ? Differentiate between parallel and S
perspective projection with example .
b ) What do you mean by surface rendering ? Explain Phong Shading 7
method for
surface removal ? Discuss Scan Line method for removing 8
hidden surfaces . b ) What are the
steps to be followed for project development ? What is 7
1
Lope
Lock
CS CamScanner


Page 6

significance of making plans for a project ?
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Light Pen
b ) Cohen - Sutherland Line Clipping
c ) Bezier Curves .
CS CamScanner


Page 7

oject ? POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Computer Graphics Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45
Courses Time : 3hrs .
Semester : Fall Year : 2014
Full
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far margin indicate full marks practicable .
The figures Amempt all the questions .
in the .
Discuss the concept of the computer graphics in IT field . Explain the need of GKS . 5 5 เ เ
Explain the need for machine independent Graphical Language . raster scan display system with vector display เท 5
Compare scan system with their architectures . co
along
What is flat panel display ?. Explain the working principles of LCD 2 + 5
monitor with figure
Rasterize the circle of 10 unit radius 00
Explain boundary fill technique with its algorithm . 7
OR
Derive equations for Bresenham's line drawing algorithm for line with 7
slope ( m ] > 1 .
Perform a 45 degree rotation of a line A ( 5,3 ) and B ( 10,15 ) about the 8
origin .
OR
Calculate viewing transformation matrix with given information : 8
given triangle with sides A ( 5,5 ) B ( 15,5 ) C ( 10,10 ) , given window
coordinate ( 7,4 ) ( 13,4 ) ( 13,8 ) , ( 7,8 ) and view port location is
7 What is clipping ? Explain in detail about Sutherland - Hodgeman
( 17,7 ) ( 18,7 ) ( 18,8 ) ( 17,8 ) ?
polygon clipping algorithm .
со Derive a transformation matrix due to orthographic and oblique 8
parallel projection .
7 b ) Derive an matrix for cubic Bezier curve formation .
2 ) Compare object space method with image space method Explain scan 4 + 4
1
S D F H
CS CamScanner


Page 8

line algorithm for detecting visible surfaces with suitable figure
. b ) Explain the Constant Gouraud and Phong shading models
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Scan line method
b ) A- Buffer algorithm
c ) Project development
CS CamScanner


Page 9

POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2014
Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Semester Full Pass Marks : 45
Course : Computer Graphics Time : 3hrs
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words practicable .
: Spring Year Marks : 100
.
as far
as in the margin indicate full marks .
The figures questions .
Attempt all the
Computer graphics makes easier in working computer fields . Why ? Graphics File formats . " 5 ก เลือก
Explain different clipping . Hodgeman . บค
Explain the s of Polygon Explain the working principles of LCD - 7
What is flat panel display ?
monitor with figure .
5
Describe the raster scan and vector scan system used in computer 8
graphics with their appropriate system architecture .
Derive Bresenham's line drawing algorithm for m < 1 . 7
Digitize one octant of a circle by using midpoint circle generation 8
algorithm center at ( 10 , 20 ) and radius is 10 .
Perform a 45 degree rotation of a line A ( 8,3 ) and B ( 14,10 ) : 60 8
i . About the origin .
ii . About a fixed point ( 4,2 ) .
b ) Reflect a rectangle A ( 2,2 ) B ( 5,2 ) C02,4 ) D ( 5,4 ) about a line x = y . 7
a ) What are the issue in 3D that makes it more complex than 2D ? Derive 7
an equation for 3D translation and reflection .
b ) Define projection . Derive an equation for the parallel projection . 8 ටො
a ) Compare object space method with image space method . Explain scan ප 8
line algorithm for detecting visible surfaces with suitable figure .
b ) What is diffuse light ? Derive the equations to calculate the intensity of 7
diffuse reflection .
Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2 × 5
a ) Z - Buffer algorithm .
b ) RGB color model .
c ) Open GL .
1
CS CamScanner


Page 10

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Bachelor Semester : Fall Full Marks : 100
Course : BE Graphics Pass Marks : 45 3hrs .
Year : 2015
Computer Time :
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
a ) Give your opinion on why interactive graphics has been able to gain immense amount of popularity in diversified fields like
such an medicine etc.
b ) In case of two raster systems with many pixels could be accessed per second in each of
by 600 , how display controller that refreshes the screen at a rate
these systems by a What is the access time per pixel in each
of 75 frames per second ?
7
8 2 a ) Differentiate between Random scan display and Raster scan display .
b ) What is DDA ? Derive the Bresenham's line drawing algorithm for the
slope greater than one .
3. a ) Find the raster position along the region 1 of the ellipse path in first 7
quadrant . The semi major and semi minor axes are 8 & 7 respectively
and the center is ( 0 , 0 ) .
b ) Explain Sutherland - Hodgeman ploygon cliping algorithm with 8
example .
4. a ) Define window and view port ? Derive the matrix that is responsible
for placing an object from a window to viewport . 7
b ) Derive the expression and matrix representation for
perspective projection . 8
5. a ) Why is it required to take care of
issues like removal of hidden surfaces in 3D viewing ? Differentiate 7
between A Buffer and Depth Sorting Approach for detecting visible
surfaces in 3D ? b ) Differentiate between 2 - D and
3 - D graphics ? In graphics which dimensional is more applicant .
S D FI
Caps
Lock N
8
8
U 1
J
CS CamScanner


Page 11

6. a ) Define lighting model and ambient light Differentiate phong Shading
and gouraud Shading method .
b ) How does the Gouraud Shading algorithm interpolate intensities at
different points of a polygon surface to give a smooth shading effect ?
What are its drawbacks ?
Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 7 .
a ) Color models and its types .
b ) Back face detection .
c ) Fractal geomectry method .
CS CamScanner


Page 12

ading effect ? sities POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor Semester : Spring : 2015 Year
Programme : BE Full Marks : 100
Pass Marks : 45 Course : Computer Graphics
Time : 3hrs .
7 b ) Explain the working principle of shadow mask method with a
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words us far practicable .
as
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
Why do you think that the use of computer graphics is growing ?
Explain with suitable examples from various fields .
diagram .
a ) How colors are displayed in monitor ? Explain . 5 ) Explain the logic used for drawing lines with positive and negative
slopes using Bresenham's Line drawing algorithm ? and having radius 8 .
a ) Digitize a circle centered at ( 100,200 ) ) What will the final coordinates of a triangle with vertices A ( 2,3 ) 7
b be shifting.ing 8
B ( 3,3 ) C ( 3,2 ) after it a by 45 degrees in anticlockwise
direction then down by 3 units and finally enlarging it by
twice its original size ?
a ) What is line clipping ? Explain the Cohen Sutherland line clipping 8
algorithm .
b ) What role does vanishing point play in perspective projection ? 7
Explain by deriving equations for Perspective Projection by
considering a vanishing point .
8
5. a ) What is the significance of Homogenous Coordinate ' System ? How 8
can an object be reflected about an arbitrary plane in 3D ?
b ) At what time which color models ( RGB and CMYK ) is important . 7
Explain .
6. a ) low do the ISM approaches differ from OSM approaches for 8
detecting visible surfaces in 3D ? Differentiate between Area
Subdivision Method and Depth Sorting Approach for detecting visible surfaces
in 3D ?
1
CS CamScanner


Page 13

b ) Explain the APIs used in OpenGL for rendering Graphical objects . 7
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x
a ) Open GL
b ) Flood fill techniques
c ) Input and Output Devices
CS CamScanner


Page 14

bjects ,\n\nPOKHARA UNIVERSITY 2.5\nLevel : Bachelor Semester : Fall Year : 2016 Marks : 100\nProgramme : BE Course Full Marks : 45\n: Computer Graphics Pass : 3hrs .\nTime\nCandidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable\n.\nThe figures in the margin indicate full marks .\nAttempt all the questions .\n3 ) \


Page 15

5. a ) Differentiate between Image Space Method and Object Space
Method ? Also write down the Painter's algorithm .
b ) Write the Z - buffer algorithm for detecting visible surface with its
drawback and remedy .
6. a ) Explain the expression used for calculating the intensity of light
incident on a surface due to Specular reflection ? How is intensity
interpolated in case of Goroud Shading ?
7 . Write short notes on : ( Any two ) . 2
b ) Why is OpenGL considered to be cross language and cross platform
collection of application programming interfaces for rendering
objects ? Explain any four OpenGL APIs that you are familiar with .
a ) Mach Bands
b ) Orthographic ParaHel Projection
c ) Color Models
CS CamScanner


Page 16

visible surface
with ating the intensity eflection POKHARA UNIVERSITY
of light ? How is Level : Bachelor Programme : BE Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45
intensity nguage and interfaces Course : Computer Graphics Time : 3hrs .
cross platform for Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
rendering you are familiar with . as practicable . The figures in the margin indicate full marks . सुगम स्टेसनरी सप्लायर्स एण्ड फोटोकपी बालकुमारी , लालतपुर १८४१५ ९९ ५ ९
Year : 2016
Attempt all the questions . NCIT College
a ) Computer graphics has enhanced the quality of work in many areas . statement through a brief discussion on areas of
Support this graphics . Specify at least one specific
application of computer
application . ratio . A laser printer is capable of 8
Define resolution and image aspect per second at resolution of 600
printing two Pages ( size 9x11 inch ) per second does such device required ?
pixels per inch . How many bits
( Assume 1 pixel = n bits ) ?
7
3 ) What is Emmissive display and explain any one with example ? What 7
are the advantage and disadvantage of LCD display ?
b ) Derive Bresenham's Line drawing algorithm for slope less than one . 8
How can this line ( with end points A ( x1 , y1 ) B ( x2 , y2 ) and slope less
than 1 ) be drawn if the starting point is taken as B ( x2 , y2 ) ?
a ) What will be the final coordinates of a polygon with vertices A ( 3,4 ) 8
B ( 5,4 ) C ( 5,2 ) D ( 3,4 ) after it is reflected about a line y = 2x + 1 ? b ) Define
boundary fill technique ? Differentiate between Bresenham's algorithm 7
line and DDA line drawing .
4. a ) Explain the steps of 2 - D viewing pipeline ? How is the complexity in 7
added in 3 - D viewing process compare to 2 - D viewing process ? b ) Why do we need clipping ?
Explain Cohen - Sutherland Line Clipping algorithm . 8
5. a ) What do you mean by perspective projection ? Derive an expression perspective projection of point 7
b ) Differentiate model and CMY color model ? two graphical file formats . 8
for finding a onto a plain surface . between RGB color
Explain any
CS CamScanner


Page 17

6. a ) What is Gouraud shading ? Explain it with an example . What are its drawbacks ?
b ) Giving the computation of depth value , explain the depth buffer
algorithm for detecting visible surfaces . What is its drawback ? How is
it removed ?
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Perspective Projection
b ) openGL
c ) Homogenous coordinate
CS CamScanner


Page 18

man example UNIVERSITY
. What POKHARA
are its h value , explain the Fall : 2017 Year
depth buffer Faces . What is its drawback Level : Bachelor Semester : Full Marks : 100 Pass Marks : 45
? How Programme : BE Computer Graphics : 3hrs .

is Course : Time
Candidates are required to give their answers in their practicable .
own words as far
as margin indicate full marks .
The figures in the questions .
Attempt all the
b ) Explain the working principal of LCD and LED . 4 + 4 Explain the techniques of pixel considered as connected ? Write logic 345
a ) What do you understand by computer graphics ? Mention some of the advantages of computer graphics .
2 + 5
a ) draw a circle using midpoint circle algorithm .
to algorithm predict the pixels on 7
b ) Using the Bresenham's line drawing
the line from ( 2,2 ) to ( 12,10 )
a ) Show that the composition of two successive rotation are additive .. 5
b ) Derive the composite transformation matrix for reflection of an object 10
about a line Y = mx + c . Apply the derived matrix for the object A ( 4,2 )
B ( 7,3 ) C ( 9,2 ) D ( 10,1 ) on to the line y = 3x .
a ) What are the issue in 3D that makes it more complex than 2D ? Derive 3 + 4
an equation for 3D translation and reflection .
b ) Define Projection . Difference between parallel and perspective 2 + 6
projection along with an equation .
a ) Compare object space method with image space method . Explain scan 4 + 4
line algorithm for detecting visible surfaces with suitable figure .
b ) What is Specular reflection ? Explain the total intensity due to 2 + 5
Specular reflection . 6.
a ) Explain Gouraud Shading and Phong Shading technique in detail with 4 + 4
their advantage and disadvantage . b ) Define Graphics
file format . Explain with example , the need for 2 + 5
machine Independent Graphical Language . 7. Write short notes
on : ( Any two ) 2x5
a ) Frame Buffer Organization
b ) Beizer Curve
c ) Depth Buffer method
d ) Cohen - Sutherland
CS CamScanner


