Page 1

POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Bachelor Semester : Spring Year Full Marks : 100 :
Programme : BE Pass Marks : 45
2017
Course : Computer Graphics Time : 3hrs .
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
1 . a ) Compare and contrast raster scan display and vector scan display
architecture .
7
b ) Define Display controller ? What are the major application areas of
8
computer graphics ?
2 a ) Define resolution . Suppose RGB raster system to be designed using
8
on 8 inch x 10 inch screen with a resolution of 100 pixels per inch in
each direction . If we want to store 6 bits per pixel in the frame buffer ,
how much storage ( in bytes ) do we need for frame buffer ?
b ) Digitize one octant of a circle by using midpoint circle generation
7
algorithm center at origin and radius is 12 .
3. a ) Derive an equation for drawing a line using Bresenhams's algorithm
8
for slope less than one .
b ) Explain two dimensional line clipping algorithm with suitable
7
example .
4. a ) Differentiate between windows and viewport ? Explain the steps of
7
viewing transformation .
OR
A mirror is placed vertically such that it passes through the points
( 10,0 ) and ( 0,10 ) . Find the reflected view of triangle ABC with
coordinates A ( 5,50 ) , B ( 20,40 ) and C ( 10,70 ) .
b ) Describe the rotation of an object about an axis , which is
parallel to any of three coordinate axes of coordinate 00 8
system . 5. a ) Explain the back face detection

method with an example . b ) What is ambient light
8
? Compare diffuse reflection with Specular reflection .
1
7
CS CamScanner


Page 2

6. a ) Explain Fast Phong
shading algorithm in detail with necessary
b ) Why machine independent programming language is used ? Discuss
about OPENGL .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) 2D rotation
b ) Graphics file format
c ) RGB color model
CS CamScanner


Page 3

cessary Bachelor Semester : Fall : 2018 Year Full Marks : 100
used ? Discuss Level : Programme : BE Computer Graphics Pass Marks : 45
Course : Time : 3hrs .
POKHARA UNIVERSITY
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own as far practicable .
words
The figures in margin all the questions .
the indicate full marks .
Attempt
a ) Differentiate between raster and random scan system with their corresponding architectures . 7
b ) Define resolution and persistence . How long would it take to load a 640x480 frame buffer with 12 bits per pixel , if 10 bits can be 8
transferred per second ? How long would it to load 24 bits per pixel
frame buffer with a resolution of 1280x1024 with using the same
transfer rate ?
a ) How decision parameter is calculated in Mid point circle method . 7
Show all necessary derivation .
b ) Explain boundary fill and flood fill algorithm in detail . 8 00
a ) What will be the final coordinates of a triangle with vertices A ( 2,3 ) . 8 00
B ( 3,3 ) C ( 3,2 ) after reflecting it about the line y = x ?
a ) Show how to use a 3 Dimensional matrix to rotate a unit cube about 8
the axis defined by vector ( 1,1,1 ) .
b ) What do you mean my windowing and Clipping ? Explain window 7
to viewport transformation pipeline .
b ) Explain Bezier method of curve drawing . 7
b ) Explain the need for machine independent graphical languages . And 7
a ) Define the terms : depth cueing and surface rendering . Write down 8
the necessary algorithms for any one of the image space method .
b ) How phong shading is different from Gouraud shading ? Explain it . 7
a ) Obtain a illumination equation due to ambient , diffused and specular 8
reflection model at a point .
also explain about GKS .
Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5 computer graphics
b ) Working principle of LED c ) Composite transformations a )
Application areas of
CS CamScanner


Page 4

Level : Bachelor Semester : Spring Full Marks : 100 Marks : 45
POKHARA UNIVERSITY : 2018
Programme : BE Pass : 3hrs .
Course : Computer Graphics Time
Year
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
a ) Explain frame buffer ? How is computer graphics applicable in the of GUI , Entertainment and medical science ? Explain
field and a row for a graphics system 5
5
c ) Explain raster scan system with video controller . 5
2 ) How colors are displayed in monitor ? 5
b ) Explain in steps the Z - buffer algorithm .
c ) Explain scan Line Method . 5 000
b ) Calculate the access time for a pixel 640 and frequency of 60 Hz .
having resolution of 1024 * 5
a ) Derive an equation for calculating points of an ellipse . 7
b ) Rasterize the points of given line end points A ( -2 , -4 ) and B ( -6 , -9 ) 8
using Bresenham's line drawing algorithm .
a ) What is windowing and clipping ? Derive window to viewport 7
transformation matrix .
b ) Apply Cohen Sutherland line clipping algorithm for calculating the
8 aa saved portion of a line from
5. a ) 10 ) Define Projection ? Derive a matrix for
( 2,7 ) to ( 8,12 ) in a window ( Xwmin =
1 Ywmin 5 and Xwmax = Y. =
== Winx
a parallel projection . b ) Calculate ( x , y ) coordinate 7
of Bezier curve described by the following 4 control points ( 0
, 0 ) , ( 1 , 2 ) , ( 3 , 3 ) , ( 4 , 0 ) . Assume Explain 0 8
any needed values . the Gouroud shading method with 6. a )
its advantages . b ) Explain why is RGB called
as additive and CMYK called subtractine model ? сл 5
as 5
H
F G H J K L
1
N M
CS CamScanner


Page 5

c ) Explain open GL .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x :
a ) Explain shading method of intensity interpolation .
b ) Explain different file formats .
c ) Viewing in 3D
5
CS CamScanner


Page 6

OKHARA UNIVERSITY
Level : Bachelor : BE Semester : Fall Year : 2019 Full Marks : 100
Programme Course : Computer Graphics Pass Marks : 45
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far practicable .
Time : 3hrs .
as full marks .
The figures in the margin indicate
Attempt all the questions .
Explain the use of computer graphics emphasizing the application of of entertainment .
graphics in the field raster monitor with a resolution of 7
8
b ) Consider a non - interlaced 20 horizontal and vertical retrace times are
1280x1024 . If the total refresh time
microsecond each , than calculate the fraction of electron beam ? Assume refresh rate
per frame spent in retrace of the
of 60 frames per second . between Beam penetration and 8
a ) Define Video Controller ? Differentiate
shadow mask method ?
b ) Explain the working of DDA line drawing algorithm with suitable 7
examples . Write its advantage and disadvantage .
OR
Explain Symmetrical property of circle . Write midpoint circle algorithm
and apply that algorithm to find the pixel values of the circle whose radius
r = 10 and centre of the circle = ( 0 , 0 ) .
a ) Define Decision Parameter in Bresenham's line drawing ? Digitize a circle 8
( x - 2 ) ² + ( y - 3 ) ² = 25 using a midpoint circle drawing algorithm .
b ) Determine window to viewport transformation matrix for window ( 5 ,
10 ) ( 15 , 20 ) and for viewport ( 8 , 12 ) ( 12 , 18 ) . Note the coordinates values 7
are for lower left and upper right corner 4. a )
. Why do you need clipping ? Explain the clipping
Cohen Sutherland line algorithm . 8 b ) Derive the composite
5 . a ) Explain and derive transformation object about an arbitrary 7
matrix of 3D rotation
about a line 8 00
matrix for reflection an axis in 3D Space .
CS CamScanner


Page 7

not parallel to any one axis . between Image space and Object space method . How A-
b ) Distinguish removes the drawback of Z - buffer method .
buffer method ambient light ? Compare between Additive and
6. a ) What do you mean by model . Level : Ba
subtractive color Programm
b ) Define OpenGL ? Explain the different file format used in Graphics to Course :
save image .
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two )
a ) Pros and Cons of Vector Graphics Candid
b ) A - Buffer Method
c ) Need for Machine Independent Graphical Languages as prac
. The fig
Attemp
a ) Wha
CS CamScanner


Page 8

Additive and POKHARA UNIVERSITY Semester : Spring Year : 2019
nat used in Graphics Level : Bachelor Full Marks : 100
to Programme : BE Course : Computer Graphics Pass Time : 3hrs .
Marks : 45
ages . as practicable . indicate full marks .
8 a ) What is computer Graphics ? How it is used in education and training
7 b ) Explain the architecture of raster scan system with importance of
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far
The figures in the margin
Attempt all the questions .
and entertainment ?
video controller .
2a ) Explain the Bresenham's Line drawing algorithm with suitable 00
example .
b ) Derive mid - point Circle algorithm . 7 7∞
3. a ) What is clipping ? Explain Cohen Sutherland's line clipping algorithm 8
with suitable example .
b ) Explain 2D transformation using Homogeneous coordinator system . 7
4. a ) Explain Beizer curve and also specify the properties of Beizer curve 8
b ) Explain and derive parallel projection transformation matrix . 7
5. a ) What is Hidden surface ? Explain the back face detection method 7
b ) Explain Gouraud and phong shading method with its advantages and 8
disadvantages .
6. a ) Explain ambient , diffuse and specular reflection . 7
b ) Explain about PHIGS and GKS language . 8
7. Write short notes on : ( Any two ) 2x5
a ) Touch panel
b ) Area Subdivision Method OPENGL
c )
CS CamScanner


Page 9

Level : Bachelor Semester : Fall Full Marks : 100 45
Programme : BE Pass Marks : 3hrs .
PO KHARA UNIVERSITY 2020
Course : Computer Graphics Time :
Year :
Candidates are required to give their answers in their own words as far as practicable .
The figures in the margin indicate full marks .
Attempt all the questions .
a ) How the entertainment and gaming industry has revolutionized advancement in computer graphics explain your answer with some real
by the 7
life examples . scan display system 00 8
b ) Discuss the difference between raster and random
with its architectural diagram .
a ) Derive an equation for calculating points of an ellipse . ( -2 , -4 ) and B ( -6 , -9 ) 8
7
b ) Rasterize the points of given line end points A algorithm .
using Brenham's line drawing
a ) Find the Trans formation matrix for window to viewport 7
Trans formation .
b ) What is windowing and clipping ; how a polygon can be clipped 8
explain ?
4. a ) Derive equation for Bezier curve in quadratic polynomial and specify 7
the blending function
b ) Define projection . Difference between parallel and perspective
projection with figure 8
5. a ) Explain the importance of hidden surface removal
b ) method of hidden surface removal . Differentiate between Gouraud and phong shading
in computer graphics , explain scan line 7
with algorithm .
6. a ) What is color model 8
. Explain RGB and CMYK color model .
b ) Explain GKS
and PHIGS . Also list out the available graphical file format .
7
8
CS CamScanner


Page 10

going to hard Programme Course : Computer Graphics words as far
to Fch data answers in their own
process mputing Candidates are required to give their
Level : Bachelor BE Semester Pass Marks Time : 3hrs .
:
POKHARA UNIVERSITY Fall Year : 2021 Full Marks : 100
: : 45
as practicable . the margin indicate full marks .
The figures in the questions .
Attempt all of computer 7
1. a ) Define computer graphics . List graphics in different fields . resolution of 1024 * 768 having the 8-
the application
b ) In a true color system having refresh rate of 60fps calculate the following
i . Size of frame buffer
ii . Access time of one frame
iii . Access time for one pixel
iv . Access time for one row
Note : convert your memory into Mega Byte .
2. a ) Differentiate between raster and Vector scan display system 8
along with their architecture .
b ) Digitize the first octant of a circle having radius 1-8 and centered 7
at ( 3,4 )
3. a ) Prove that successive translation and rotation is additive . 8
b ) Explain the role of composite transformation in 2D / 3D 7
4. a ) What is 3D transformation ? Rotate the triangle A ( 0,0 ) , B ( 2,2 ) , 8
geometric transformation . Explain viewing pipelining in 2D .
C ( 4.2 ) about the origin by an angle of 45 ° .
b ) How you represent different objects in 3D . Differentiate
between parallel and perspective projection with example ? 7
5. a ) What is Mach band effect ? Differentiate between Gouraud and
Phong shading . 8
b ) Define color model in computer graphics . Differentiate between
additive color and subtractive color . 7
CS CamScanner


